    
 
 
 
 
 
 Harry Potter And the  Chamber of Secrets      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 also by j. k. rowling Harry Potter and the Sorcerers Stone Year One at Hogwarts Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets Year Two at Hogwarts Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban Year Three at Hogwarts Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire Year Four at Hogwarts Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix Year Five at Hogwarts Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince Year Six at Hogwarts Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Year Seven at Hogwarts Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets   BY J. K. Rowling ILLUSTRATIONS BY Mary GrandPr   
 
  ARTHUR A. LEVINE BOOKS AN IMPRINT OF SCHOLASTIC Press.  For Sen P. F. Harris. Getaway driver and foul-weather friend    Text copyright  1999 by J. K. Rowling. 
Illustrations by Mary GrandPr copyright  1999 Warner Bros. 
All rights reserved. Published by Scholastic Press, a division of Scholastic Inc., Publishers since 1920.
 scholastic, scholastic press, and the 
lantern logo are trademarks and/or registered 
trademarks of Scholastic Inc.  harry potter
, characters, names, and related indicia are trademarks and  Warner Bros. 
Harry Potter Publishing Rights  J. K. Rowling 
 No part of this publication may be reproduced, or stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted 
in any form or by any means, electronic, mechani
cal, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, 
without written permission of the publisher.
 For information regarding permission, write to Scholastic Inc., Attention: Permissions Department, 557 Broadway, New York, NY 10012. 
 Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 
 Rowling, J. K. Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets / by J. K. Rowling. 
p.    cm. Summary: When the Chamber of Secrets is opened again at the Hogwarts School 
of Witchcraft and Wizardry, second-year student Harry Potter finds himself in danger from a dark power that has once more been released on the school. 
ISBN 0-439-06486-4 
[1. Wizards  Fiction.    2. Magic  
Fiction.    3. Schools  Fiction. 
4. England  Fiction.]    I. Title. 
PZ7.R7968Har    1999 
[Fic]  dc21    98-46370 
 60 59 58 57 56 55 54 53                     02 03 04 05 06 Printed in the U.S.A.    23 
First American edition, June 1999
   v  Contents ONE The Worst Birthday  1 TWO Dobbys Warning  12 THREE The Burrow  24 FOUR At Flourish and Blotts  42 FIVE The Whomping Willow  65 SIX Gilderoy Lockhart  86 SEVEN Mudbloods and Murmurs  104 EIGHT The Deathday Party  122 Contents  vi  NINE The Writing on the Wall  140 TEN The Rogue Bludger  161 ELEVEN The Dueling Club  182 TWELVE The Polyjuice Potion  205 THIRTEEN The Very Secret Diary  227 FOURTEEN Cornelius Fudge  249 FIFTEEN Aragog  265 SIXTEEN The Chamber of Secrets  283 SEVENTEEN The Heir of Slytherin  306 EIGHTEEN Dobbys Reward  327     
 
 
 
 
 Harry Potter And the  Chamber of Secrets       C H A P T E R  O N E   1  THE WORST BIRTHDAY 
   ot for the first time, an argument had broken out over 

breakfast at number four, Priv
et Drive. Mr. Vernon Durs-
ley had been woken in the early 
hours of the morning by a loud, 
hooting noise from his 
nephew Harrys room. 
Third time this week! he roared
 across the table. If you cant 
control that owl, itll have to go! Harry tried, yet ag
ain, to explain. 
Shes bored, he said. Shes used to flying around outside. If I 
could just let her out at night  
Do I look stupid? snarled Uncle Vernon, a bit of fried egg dan-gling from his bushy mustache. I
 know whatll happen if that owls let out. He exchanged dark looks with his wife, Petunia. 

Harry tried to argue back but his words were drowned by a long, 
loud belch from the Dursleys son, Dudley. 

 N CHAPTER  ONE  2  I want more bacon. 
Theres more in the frying pan, sweetums, said Aunt Petunia, turning misty eyes on
 her massive son. We must build you up 
while weve got the chance. . . . I do
nt like the sound of that school 
food. . . . Nonsense, Petunia, I never went hungry when 
I was at Smelt-ings, said Uncle Vernon heartily
. Dudley gets enough, dont you, 
son? Dudley, who was so large his bottom
 drooped over either side of the kitchen chair, grinned and turned to Harry. 
Pass the frying pan. 
Youve forgotten the magic wo
rd, said Harry irritably. 
The effect of this simple sentence on the rest of the family was 
incredible: Dudley gasped and fell 
off his chair with a crash that shook the whole kitchen; Mrs. Dursley gave a small scream and 
clapped her hands to her mouth; Mr. Dursley jumped to his feet, 

veins throbbing in his temples. 
I meant please! said Harry quickly. 
I didnt mean  
WHAT HAVE I TOLD YOU, thundered his uncle, spraying spit over the table, ABOUT 
SAYING THE M WORD IN OUR 
HOUSE? 
But I  
HOW DARE YOU THREATEN DUDLEY! roared Uncle 
Vernon, pounding the 
table with his fist. 
I just  

I WARNED YOU! I WILL NOT TOLERATE MENTION OF YOUR ABNORMALITY UNDER THIS ROOF! Harry stared from his purple-faced uncle to his pale aunt, who 
was trying to heave Dudley to his feet. 
THE  WORST  BIRTHDAY  3  All right, said Harry, 
all right . . . Uncle Vernon sat back down, breathing like a winded rhinoceros 
and watching Harry closely out of the corners of his small, sharp eyes. Ever since Harry had come home
 for the summer holidays, Un-
cle Vernon had been treating him li
ke a bomb that might go off at 
any moment, because Harry Potter 
wasnt
 a normal boy. As a mat-
ter of fact, he was as not norm
al as it is possible to be. 
Harry Potter was a wizard  a wizard fresh from his first year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. And if the Dursleys 
were unhappy to have him back fo
r the holidays, it was nothing to 
how Harry felt. He missed Hogwarts so much it was like having a constant 
stomachache. He missed the castle, with its secret
 passageways and ghosts, his classes (though perhaps 
not Snape, the Potions master), 
the mail arriving by owl, eating banquets in the Great Hall, sleep-
ing in his four-poster bed in the tower dormitory, visiting the 
gamekeeper, Hagrid, in 
his cabin next to the Forbidden Forest in 
the grounds, and, especially, Quid
ditch, the most popular sport in 
the wizarding world (six tall goal po
sts, four flying balls, and four-
teen players on broomsticks). 
All Harrys spellbooks, his wand, robes, cauldron, and top-of-
the-line Nimbus Two Thousand br
oomstick had been locked in a cupboard under the stairs by Uncle Vernon the instant Harry had 
come home. What did the Dursleys 
care if Harry lost his place on 
the House Quidditch team because he hadnt practiced all sum-

mer? What was it to 
the Dursleys if Harry 
went back to school 
without any of his homework done? The Dursleys were what wiz-
ards called Muggles (not a drop of magical blood in their veins), CHAPTER  ONE  4  and as far as they were concerned, 
having a wizard in the family was 
a matter of deepest shame. Un
cle Vernon had even padlocked 
Harrys owl, Hedwig, in
side her cage, to stop her from carrying 
messages to anyone in the wizarding world. 
Harry looked nothing like the re
st of the family. Uncle Vernon 
was large and neckless, with an 
enormous black mustache; Aunt 
Petunia was horse-faced and bony
; Dudley was blond, pink, and 
porky. Harry, on the other hand, 
was small and skinny, with bril-
liant green eyes and jet-black hair 
that was always untidy. He wore 
round glasses, and on his forehead was a thin, lightning-shaped 
scar. It was this scar that made Harry so particularly unusual, even for 
a wizard. This scar was the only 
hint of Harrys very mysterious 
past, of the reason he had been left on the Dursleys doorstep eleven years before. 
At the age of one year old, Harry had somehow survived a curse 
from the greatest Dark sorcerer of
 all time, Lord Voldemort, whose 
name most witches and wizards st
ill feared to speak. Harrys par-ents had died in Voldemorts a
ttack, but Harry ha
d escaped with his lightning scar, and somehow  nobody understood why  
Voldemorts powers had been destro
yed the instant he had failed to 
kill Harry. So Harry had been brought up by his dead mothers sister and her 
husband. He had spent ten years with the Dursleys, never un-
derstanding why he kept making odd things happen without meaning to, believing the Dursleys st
ory that he had got his scar in 

the car crash that had killed his parents. And then, exactly a year ago, Hogwarts had written to Harry,   THE  WORST  BIRTHDAY  5  and the whole story had come out. Harry had taken up his place at 
wizard school, where he and his scar were famous . . . but now the 
school year was over, and he was back with the Dursleys for the summer, back to being treated like
 a dog that had rolled in some-thing smelly. The Dursleys hadnt even rememb
ered that today happened to 
be Harrys twelfth birthday. Of course, his hopes hadnt been high; 
theyd never given him a real present, let alone a cake  but to ig-
nore it completely . . . 
At that moment, Uncle Vernon 
cleared his throat importantly 
and said, Now, as we all know, 
today is a very important day. 
Harry looked up, hardly 
daring to believe it. 
This could well be the day I ma
ke the biggest deal of my ca-reer, said Uncle Vernon. 
Harry went back to his toast. 
Of course,
 he thought bitterly, 
Un-cle Vernon was talking about the stupid dinner party.
 Hed been talk-
ing of nothing else for two weeks.
 Some rich builder and his wife 
were coming to dinner and Uncle Vernon was hoping to get a huge 
order from him (Uncle Vernons company made drills). I think we should run through 
the schedule one more time, 
said Uncle Vernon. We should all be
 in position at
 eight oclock. Petunia, you will be  ? 
In the lounge, said Aunt Petunia promptly, waiting to wel-
come them graciously to our home. 
Good, good. And Dudley? 
Ill be waiting to open the door. Dudley put on a foul, sim-pering smile. May I take your coats, Mr. and Mrs. Mason? 
Theyll 
love him! cried Aunt Petunia rapturously.  CHAPTER  ONE  6  Excellent, Dudley, said Uncle Vernon. Then he rounded on Harry. And 
you? Ill be in my bedroom, making no noise and pretending Im not there, said Harry tonelessly. 
Exactly, said Uncle Vernon nastil
y. I will lead them into the 
lounge, introduce you, Petunia, and pour them drinks. At eight-
fifteen  Ill announce dinner, said Aunt Petunia. 

And, Dudley, youll say  
May I take you through to the dining room, Mrs. Mason? said 
Dudley, offering his fat ar
m to an invisible woman. 
My perfect little gentleman! sniffed Aunt Petunia. 
And 
you? said Uncle Vernon viciously to Harry. 
Ill be in my room, making no noise and pretending Im not 
there, said Harry dully. 
Precisely. Now, we should aim to get in a few good compli-ments at dinner. Petunia, any ideas? 
Vernon tells me youre a 
wonderful
 golfer, Mr. Mason. . . . Do tell me where you bought your
 dress, Mrs. Mason. . . . 
Perfect . . . Dudley? 
How about  We had to write an essay about our hero at school, Mr. Mason, and 
I wrote about you. 
This was too much for both Aunt
 Petunia and Harry. Aunt Petu-nia burst into tears and hugged 
her son, while Harry ducked under the table so they wouldnt see him laughing. 
And you, boy? 
Harry fought to keep
 his face straight as he emerged. 
Ill be in my room, making no noise and pretending Im not 
there, he said. THE  WORST  BIRTHDAY  7  Too right, you will, said Un
cle Vernon forcefully. The Ma-
sons dont know anything about you 
and its going to stay that way. 
When dinners over, you take Mrs.
 Mason back to the lounge for 
coffee, Petunia, and Ill bring the su
bject around to drills. With any 
luck, Ill have the deal
 signed and sealed befo
re the news at ten. 
Well be shopping for a vacation 
home in Majorca this time to-
morrow. 
Harry couldnt feel too excited ab
out this. He didnt think the 
Dursleys would like him any better
 in Majorca than they did on 
Privet Drive. 
Right  Im off into town to pick up the dinner jackets for Dudley and me. And 
you, he snarled at Harry. You stay out of 
your aunts way whil
e shes cleaning. 
Harry left through the back door. It was a brilliant, sunny day. He crossed the lawn, slumped down on the garden bench, and sang under his breath: 
Happy birthday to me . . . happy birthday to me . . . 
No cards, no presents, and he would be spending the evening 
pretending not to exist. He gazed miserably into the hedge. He had 
never felt so lonely. 
More than anything else at Hogwarts, more 
even than playing Quidditch, Harry missed his best friends, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger. They
, however, didnt seem to be 
missing him at all. Neither of them had written to him all summer, 
even though Ron had said he was going to ask Harry to come and 
stay. Countless times, Harry had been on the point of unlocking 
Hedwigs cage by magic and sending her to Ron and Hermione 

with a letter, but it wasnt worth 
the risk. Underage wizards werent 
allowed to use magic outside of school. Harry hadnt told the 
CHAPTER  ONE  8  Dursleys this; he knew it was only their terror that he might turn 
them all into dung beetles that stopped them from locking 
him in the cupboard under the stairs wi
th his wand and broomstick. For 
the first couple of weeks back, Harry had enjoyed muttering non-

sense words under his breath and watching Dudley tearing out of 
the room as fast as his fat legs would carry him. But the long silence from Ron and Hermione had made Harry feel so cut off from the magical world that even taunting 
Dudley had lost its appeal  and 
now Ron and Hermione had 
forgotten his birthday. 
What wouldnt he give now for a message from Hogwarts? From 
any witch or wizard? Hed almost 
be glad of a sight of his arch-
enemy, Draco Malfoy, just to be sure
 it hadnt all been a dream. . . . 
Not that his whole year at Hogwarts had been fun. At the very 
end of last term, Harry had come face-to-face with none other than Lord Voldemort himself. Voldemort 
might be a ruin of his former 
self, but he was still terrifying, still cunning, still determined to re-
gain power. Harry had slipped th
rough Voldemorts clutches for a 
second time, but it had been a narrow escape, and even now, weeks 
later, Harry kept waking in the night, drenched in cold sweat, won-
dering where Voldemort was now, 
remembering his livid face, his 
wide, mad eyes  
Harry suddenly sat bolt upright on
 the garden bench. He had 
been staring absent-mindedly into the hedge  
and the hedge was 
staring back. Two enormous green eyes had appeared among the leaves. Harry jumped to his feet just as a jeering voice floated across the lawn. I know what day it is, sa
ng Dudley, waddling toward him.  THE  WORST  BIRTHDAY  9  The huge eyes blinked and vanished. 
What? said Harry, not taking his eyes off the spot where they had been. 
I know what day it is, Dudley repeated, coming right up to 
him. Well done, said Harry. So you
ve finally learned the days of the week. 
Todays your birthday, sneered Dudley. How come you 
havent got any cards? Havent yo
u even got friends at that freak 
place? Better not let your mum hear you talking about my school, 
said Harry coolly. 
Dudley hitched up his trousers, 
which were slipping down his 
fat bottom. 
Whyre you staring at the hedge? he said suspiciously. 
Im trying to decide what would be the best spell to set it on 
fire, said Harry. 
Dudley stumbled backward at on
ce, a look of panic on his fat face. You c-cant  Dad told you yo
ure not to do m-magic  he 
said hell chuck you out of the 
house  and you havent got any-
where else to go  you havent got any 
friends
 to take you  
Jiggery pokery
! said Harry in a fierce voice. 
Hocus pocus
  squiggly wiggly
  
MUUUUUUM! howled Dudley, tripping over his feet as he 
dashed back toward the house. MUUUUM! Hes doing you know 
what! Harry paid dearly for his moment of
 fun. As neither Dudley nor  
 CHAPTER  ONE  10  the hedge was in any way hurt, Aunt
 Petunia knew he hadnt really 
done magic, but he still had to duck as she aimed a heavy blow at 
his head with the soapy frying pan. Then she gave him work to do, 
with the promise he wouldnt eat again until hed finished. 
While Dudley lolled around wa
tching and eating ice cream, 
Harry cleaned the windows, washed the car, mowed the lawn, 
trimmed the flowerbeds, pruned and watered the roses, and re-
painted the garden bench. The su
n blazed overhead, burning the 
back of his neck. Harry knew he 
shouldnt have risen to Dudleys 
bait, but Dudley had said the very thing Harry had been thinking 

himself . . . maybe he 
didnt
 have any friends 
at Hogwarts. . . . Wish they could see famous Harry Potter now,
 he thought savagely 
as he spread manure on the flower
 beds, his back aching, sweat run-
ning down his face. 
It was half past seven in the evening when at last, exhausted, he 
heard Aunt Petunia calling him. 
Get in here! And wa
lk on the newspaper! 
Harry moved gladly into the shade 
of the gleaming kitchen. On top of the fridge stood tonigh
ts pudding: a huge mound of whipped cream and sugared violets. A loin of roast pork was siz-
zling in the oven. Eat quickly! The Masons will be here soon! snapped Aunt 
Petunia, pointing to two slices of 
bread and a lump of cheese on the 
kitchen table. She was already wearing a salmon-pink cocktail 
dress. Harry washed his hands and bolted down his pitiful supper. The 
moment he had finished, Aunt Pe
tunia whisked away his plate. 
Upstairs! Hurry!  THE  WORST  BIRTHDAY  11  As he passed the door to the living room, Harry caught a 
glimpse of Uncle Vernon
 and Dudley in bow ties and dinner jack-
ets. He had only just reached th
e upstairs landing when the door-
bell rang and Uncle Vernons furiou
s face appeared at the foot of 
the stairs. Remember, boy  one sound  
Harry crossed to his bedroom on tiptoe, slipped inside, closed 
the door, and turned to collapse on his bed. 
The trouble was, there was already someone sitting on it. 
C H A P T E R  T W O   12  DOBBYS WARNING 
   arry managed not to shout out, but it was a close thing. 

The little creature on the bed had large, bat-like ears and 
bulging green eyes the 
size of tennis balls. Harry knew instantly that this was what had been watching him out of the garden hedge that morning. 
As they stared at each other, Harry heard Dudleys voice from 
the hall. May I take your coats, Mr. and Mrs. Mason? 
The creature slipped off the bed 
and bowed so low that the end of its long, thin nose 
touched the carpet. Harry noticed that it was wearing what looked like an old pillowcase, with rips for arm- and 

leg-holes. 
Er  hello, said Harry nervously. Harry Potter! said the creature in a high-pitched voice Harry 
was sure would carry down the stai
rs. So long has Dobby wanted 
to meet you, sir . . . Such
 an honor it is. . . . 
H DOBBYS  WARNING  13  Th-thank you, said Harry, edging along th
e wall and sinking into his desk chair, next to Hedwig, who was asleep in her large 
cage. He wanted to ask, What are you? but thought it would 

sound too rude, so instead he said, Who are you? 
Dobby, sir. Just Dobby. Dobby the house-elf, said the crea-
ture. 
Oh  really? said Harry. Er  I dont want to be rude or 
anything, but  this isnt a great time for me to have a house-elf in 

my bedroom. Aunt Petunias high, false laugh 
sounded from the living room. The elf hung his head. 
Not that Im not pleased to 
meet you, said Harry quickly, 
but, er, is there any partic
ular reason youre here? 
Oh, yes, sir, said Dobby earnestly. Dobby has come to tell 
you, sir . . . it is difficult, si
r . . . Dobby wonders where to be-
gin. . . . 
Sit down, said Harry politely, pointing at the bed. 
To his horror, the elf burst in
to tears  very noisy tears. S-sit down
! he wailed. 
Never
 . . . never ever
 . . . Harry thought he heard the voices downstairs falter. 
Im sorry, he whispered, I didnt mean to offend you or any-
thing  Offend Dobby! choked the elf. Dobby has 
never
 been asked 
to sit down by a wizard  like an 
equal
  
Harry, trying to say Shh! an
d look comforting at the same 
time, ushered Dobby back onto the bed where he sat hiccoughing, 
looking like a large and very ugly 
doll. At last he managed to con-trol himself, and sat with his grea
t eyes fixed on Harry in an ex-
pression of watery adoration. CHAPTER  TWO  14  You cant have met many decent 
wizards, said Harry, trying to 
cheer him up. 
Dobby shook his head. Then, without warning, he leapt up and 
started banging his head furiously on the window, shouting, 
Bad 
Dobby! Bad
 Dobby! Dont  what are you doing? 
Harry hissed, springing up and pulling Dobby back onto the bed  Hedwig had woken up with a particularly loud screech and was beating her wings wildly against 
the bars of her cage. 
Dobby had to punish himself, sir, said the elf, who had gone 
slightly cross-eyed. Dobby almost sp
oke ill of his family, sir. . . . 
Your family? 

The wizard family Dobby serves
, sir. . . . Dobby is a house-elf  bound to serve one house an
d one family forever. . . . 
Do they know youre here? asked Harry curiously. Dobby shuddered. Oh, no, sir, no . . . Dobby will have to punish himself most 
grievously for coming to see you, sir. Dobby will have to shut his 
ears in the oven door for this
. If they ever knew, sir  
But wont they notice if you shut your ears in the oven door? 
Dobby doubts it, sir. Dobby is always having to punish himself 
for something, sir. They lets Dobby get on with it, sir. Sometimes 
they reminds me to do ex
tra punishments. . . . 
But why dont you leave? Escape? 
A house-elf must be set free, sir. And the family will never set 
Dobby free . . . Dobby will serve the 
family until he dies, sir. . . . 
Harry stared. 
And I thought I had it bad staying here for another four weeks,  
 DOBBYS  WARNING  15  he said. This makes the Dursleys sound almost human. Cant any-
one help you? Cant I? 
Almost at once, Harry wished he hadnt spoken. Dobby dis-
solved again into wails of gratitude. 
Please, Harry whispered frantica
lly, please be quiet. If the 
Dursleys hear anything, if 
they know youre here  Harry Potter asks if he can help Dobby . . . Dobby has heard of 
your greatness, sir, but of your goodness, Dobby never knew. . . . 
Harry, who was feeling distinctly hot in the face, said, What-
ever youve heard about my greatnes
s is a load of rubbish. Im not 
even top of my year at Hogwarts; thats Hermione, she  
But he stopped quickly, becaus
e thinking about Hermione was 
painful. Harry Potter is humble and modest, said Dobby reverently, his 
orb-like eyes aglow. Harry Potter
 speaks not of his triumph over 
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named  
Voldemort? said Harry. 

Dobby clapped his hands over hi
s bat ears and moaned, Ah, 
speak not the name, sir!
 Speak not the name! 
Sorry, said Harry quickly. I know lots of people dont like it. 
My friend Ron  
He stopped again. Thinking about Ron was painful, too. 
Dobby leaned toward Harry, his eyes wide as headlights. 
Dobby heard tell, he said hoar
sely, that Harry Potter met the Dark Lord for a second time, just weeks ago . . . that Harry Potter escaped 
yet again. Harry nodded and Dobbys eyes
 suddenly shone with tears. 
Ah, sir, he gasped, dabbing his fa
ce with a corner of the grubby  
 CHAPTER  TWO  16  pillowcase he was wearing. Harry Potter is valiant and bold! He 
has braved so many dangers already! But Dobby has come to pro-
tect Harry Potter, to warn him, even if he 
does
 have to shut his ears 
in the oven door later. . . . 
Harry Potter must not go back to Hogwarts.
 There was a silence broken only by
 the chink of knives and forks 
from downstairs and the distant rumble of Uncle Vernons voice. 
W-what? Harry stammered. But Ive got to go back  term starts on September first. Its all thats keeping me going. You dont 
know what its like here. I dont 
belong here. I belong in your 
world  at Hogwarts. 
No, no, no, squeaked Dobby, shaking his head so hard his ears 
flapped. Harry Potter must stay where he is safe. He is too great, 
too good, to lose. If Harry Potter goes back to Hogwarts, he will be 
in mortal danger. 
Why? said Harry in surprise. 

There is a plot, Harry Potter. 
A plot to make most terrible 
things happen at Hogw
arts School of Witchc
raft and Wizardry this year, whispered Dobby, suddenly
 trembling all over. Dobby has 
known it for months, sir. Harry 
Potter must not put himself in 
peril. He is too important, sir! 
What terrible things? said Ha
rry at once. Whos plotting 
them? 
Dobby made a funny choking no
ise and then banged his head 
frantically against the wall. 
All right! cried Harry, grabbing the elfs arm to stop him. You 
cant tell me. I understand
. But why are you warning 
me? A sud-
den, unpleasant thought struck hi
m. Hang on  this hasnt got 
anything to do with Vol  sorry
  with You-Know-Who, has it?   DOBBYS  WARNING  17  You could just shake or nod, he added hastily as Dobbys head 
tilted worryingly close 
to the wall again. Slowly, Dobby shook his head. 
Not  not 
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named,
 sir  But Dobbys eyes were wide and he
 seemed to be 
trying to give Harry a hint. Harry, howeve
r, was completely lost. 
He hasnt got a brother, has he? 
Dobby shook his head, his eyes wider than ever. 
Well then, I cant think who else
 would have a chance of mak-ing horrible things happen at 
Hogwarts, said Harry. I mean, 
theres Dumbledore, for one t
hing  you know who Dumbledore 
is, dont you? 
Dobby bowed his head. 
Albus Dumbledore is the grea
test headmaster Hogwarts has 
ever had. Dobby knows it, sir.
 Dobby has heard Dumbledores powers rival those of He-Who-Mus
t-Not-Be-Named at the height 
of his strength. But, sir  Dobb
ys voice dropped to an urgent whisper  there are powers Dumbledore doesnt . . . powers no 
decent wizard . . . And before Harry could stop him, Dobby bounded off the bed, 
seized Harrys desk lamp, and started beating himself around the 
head with earspl
itting yelps. A sudden silence fell downstairs. Two seconds later Harry, heart thudding madly, heard Uncle Vernon coming into the hall, calling, 
Dudley must have left
 his television on again, the little tyke! Quick! In the closet! hissed Harr
y, stuffing Dobby in, shutting 
the door, and flinging himself onto the bed just as the door handle turned. 
 CHAPTER  TWO  18  What  the  devil  are  you  doing? said Uncle Ver-non through gritted teeth, his fa
ce horribly close to Harrys. 
Youve just ruined the punch line 
of my Japanese golfer joke. . . . 
One more sound and youll wish youd never been born, boy! 
He stomped flat-footed from the room. Shaking, Harry let Dobb
y out of the closet. See what its like here? he said
. See why Ive got to go back to 
Hogwarts? Its the only place Ive got  well, I think Ive got friends. 
Friends who dont even 
write 
to Harry Potter? said Dobby slyly. 
I expect theyve just been  wa
it a minute, said Harry, frown-
ing. How do you 
know my friends havent been writing to me? 
Dobby shuffled his feet. 
Harry Potter mustnt be angr
y with Dobby. Dobby did it for 
the best  Have you been sto
pping my letters
? Dobby has them here, sir, said 
the elf. Stepping nimbly out of Harrys reach, he pulled a thick wad 
of envelopes from the inside of the pillowcase he was wearing. Harry could make out Hermiones 
neat writing, Rons untidy scrawl
, and even a scribble that looked 
as though it was 
from the Hogwarts gamekeeper, Hagrid. 
Dobby blinked anxiously up at Harry. 
Harry Potter mustnt be angry. . . . Dobby hoped . . . if Harry 
Potter thought his friends had forgotten him . . . Harry Potter 
might not want to go back
 to school, sir. . . . 
Harry wasnt listening. He ma
de a grab for the letters, but 
Dobby jumped out of reach. Harry Potter will have them, sir, if he gives Dobby his word   DOBBYS  WARNING  19  that he will not return to Hogwarts. Ah, sir, this is a danger you 
must not face! Say you 
wont go back, sir! 
No, said Harry angrily. Give me my friends letters! 
Then Harry Potter leaves Dobby no
 choice, said the elf sadly. 
Before Harry could move, Dobby had darted to
 the bedroom door, pulled it open, and sprinted down the stairs. Mouth dry, stomach lurching, Ha
rry sprang after him, trying 
not to make a sound. He jumped the last six steps, landing catlike 
on the hall carpet, looking around for Dobby. From the dining 
room he heard Uncle Vernon saying, . . . tell Petunia that very 
funny story about those American
 plumbers, Mr. Mason. Shes 
been dying to hear . . . Harry ran up the hall into the kitchen and felt his stomach dis-appear. 
Aunt Petunias masterpiece of a 
pudding, the mountain of cream 
and sugared violets, was floating up near the ceiling. On top of a 
cupboard in the corner crouched Dobby. 
No, croaked Harry. Please . 
. . theyll kill me. . . . Harry Potter must say hes not going back to school  
Dobby . . . please . . . 
Say it, sir  
I cant  
Dobby gave him a tragic look. 
Then Dobby must do it, sir, 
for Harry Potters own good. 
The pudding fell to the floor with
 a heart-stopping crash. Cream 
splattered the windows and walls as the dish shattered. With a 
crack like a whip, Dobby vanished. 
There were screams from the di
ning room and Uncle Vernon  
 CHAPTER  TWO  20  burst into the kitchen to find Harr
y, rigid with shock, covered from 
head to foot in Aunt Petunias pudding. 
At first, it looked as though Uncle Vernon would manage to 
gloss the whole thing over. (Ju
st our nephew  very disturbed  
meeting strangers upsets him, so 
we kept him upstairs. . . .) He shooed the shocked Masons back into the dining room, promised 
Harry he would flay him to within 
an inch of his life when the Ma-sons had left, and handed him a 
mop. Aunt Petunia dug some ice 
cream out of the freezer and Harry,
 still shaking, started scrubbing the kitchen clean. Uncle Vernon might still have been 
able to make his deal  if it 
hadnt been for the owl. 
Aunt Petunia was just
 passing around a box of after-dinner 
mints when a huge barn owl swooped through the dining room window, dropped a letter on Mrs. Masons head, and swooped out 
again. Mrs. Mason screamed like a banshee and ran from the house 
shouting about lunatics. Mr. Mason stayed just long enough to tell 
the Dursleys that his wife was mortal
ly afraid of birds of all shapes 
and sizes, and to ask whether th
is was their idea of a joke. 
Harry stood in the kitchen, clutching the mop for support, as Uncle Vernon advanced on him, a demonic glint in his tiny eyes. 
Read it! he hissed evilly, brandishing the letter the owl had de-livered. Go on  read it! Harry took it. It did not 
contain birthday greetings. 
 Dear Mr. Potter, We have received intelligence that a Hover Charm was 
used at your place of residenc
e this evening at twelve min-utes past nine. 
DOBBYS  WARNING  21  As you know, underage wizard
s are not permitted to per-
form spells outside school, and further spellwork on your part may lead to expulsion from said school (Decree for the 

Reasonable Restriction of Un
derage Sorcery, 1875, Para-graph C). 
We would also ask you to remember that any magical 
activity that risks notice by members of the non-magical 
community (Muggles) is a serious offense under section 13 
of the International Confederation of Warlocks Statute of 
Secrecy. Enjoy your holidays! 
Yours sincerely,    Mafalda Hopkirk 
improper use of magic office
 Ministry of Magic
  Harry looked up from the letter and gulped. 
You didnt tell us you werent allowed to use magic outside 
school, said Uncle Vernon, a mad gleam dancing in his eyes. For-
got to mention it. . . . Slipped 
your mind, I daresay. . . . 
He was bearing down on Harry like a great bulldog, all his teeth bared. Well, Ive got news for you, boy. . . . Im locking you 

up. . . . Youre never going back to 
that school . . . never . . . and if 
you try and magic yourself 
out  theyll expel you! 
And laughing like a maniac, he dragged Harry back upstairs. 
Uncle Vernon was as bad as hi
s word. The following morning, 
CHAPTER  TWO  22  he paid a man to fit bars on Harrys window. He himself fitted a 
cat-flap in the bedroom door, so that small amounts of food could be pushed inside three times a da
y. They let Harry out to use the 
bathroom morning and evening. Ot
herwise, he was locked in his 
room around the clock.  Three days later, the Dursleys were showing no sign of relenting, 

and Harry couldnt see any way out of his situation. He lay on his 
bed watching the sun sinking behi
nd the bars on the window and 
wondered miserably what was 
going to happen to him. 
What was the good of magicking himself out of his room if Hogwarts would expel him for doing 
it? Yet life at Privet Drive had 
reached an all-time low. Now that the Dursleys knew they werent 

going to wake up as fruit bats, he
 had lost his only weapon. Dobby might have saved Harry from horrible happenings at Hogwarts, 

but the way things were going, hed probably starve to death any-

way. The cat-flap rattled and Aunt Petunias hand appeared, pushing 
a bowl of canned soup into the room. Harry, whose insides were 
aching with hunger, jumped off his bed and seized it. The soup was 
stone-cold, but he drank half of it in one gulp. Then he crossed the room to Hedwigs cage and tipped the soggy vegetables at the bot-
tom of the bowl into her empty 
food tray. She ruffled her feathers 
and gave him a look of deep disgust. 
Its no good turning your beak up at it  thats all weve got, said Harry grimly. He put the empty bowl back on th
e floor next to the cat-flap and 
lay back down on the bed, somehow even hungrier than he had 
been before the soup. 
DOBBYS  WARNING  23  Supposing he was still alive in 
another four weeks, what would 
happen if he didnt turn up at Hogwarts? Would someone be sent 
to see why he hadnt come back? Would they be able to make the 

Dursleys let him go? 
The room was growing dark. Exhausted, stomach rumbling, mind spinning over the same unanswerable questions, Harry fell into an uneasy sleep. 
He dreamed that he was on show in a zoo, with a card reading 
underage wizard attached to his cage. People goggled through 
the bars at him as he lay, starving
 and weak, on a bed of straw. He saw Dobbys face in th
e crowd and shouted out, asking for help, but Dobby called, Harry Potter is safe there, sir! and vanished. 
Then the Dursleys appeared and 
Dudley rattled the bars of the 
cage, laughing at him. 
Stop it, Harry muttered as the rattling pounded in his sore head. Leave me alone . . . cut it out . . . Im trying to sleep. . . . 
He opened his eyes. Moonlight was shining through the bars on the window. And someone was goggling through the bars at him: a 
freckle-faced, red-haired, long-nosed someone. 
Ron Weasley was outs
ide Harrys window. C H A P T E R  T H R E E   24  THE BURROW 
   on! breathed Harry, creeping to the window and pushing it up so they could talk through the bars. Ron, how did you  What the  ? 
Harrys mouth fell open as the full impact of what he was see-
ing hit him. Ron was leaning ou
t of the back window of an old turquoise car, which was parked 
in midair. Grinning at Harry 
from the front seats were Fred and George, Rons elder twin 
brothers. 
All right, Harry? asked George. 
Whats been going on? said Ron. Why havent you been an-
swering my letters? Ive asked you to stay about twelve times, and 

then Dad came home and said youd got an official warning for us-

ing magic in front of Muggles  
It wasnt me  and 
how did he know? He works for the Ministry, said Ron. You 
know
 were not sup-
posed to do spells 
outside school  R THE  BURROW  25  You should talk, said Harry, staring at
 the floating car. 
Oh, this doesnt count, said Ro
n. Were only borrowing this. 
Its Dads, we didnt enchant it. But doing magic in front of those 
Muggles you live with  I told you, I didnt  but itl
l take too long to explain now  look, can you tell them at Hogwarts
 that the Dursleys have locked 
me up and wont let me come back, and obviously I cant magic 
myself out, because the Ministryll think thats the second spell Ive 
done in three days, so  
Stop gibbering, said Ron. Weve come to take you home 
with us. But you cant magic me out either  
We dont need to, said Ron, jerking his head toward the front 
seat and grinning. You forg
et who Ive got with me. 
Tie that around the bars, said 
Fred, throwing the end of a rope 
to Harry. If the Dursleys wake up, Im de
ad, said Harry as he tied the rope tightly around a bar and Fred revved up the car. 
Dont worry, said Fred, and stand back. 
Harry moved back into the sh
adows next to Hedwig, who seemed to have realized how impo
rtant this was and kept still and silent. The car revved louder an
d louder and suddenly, with a crunching noise, the bars were pulled clean out of the window as Fred drove straight up in the air.
 Harry ran back to the window to 
see the bars dangling a few feet
 above the ground. Panting, Ron 
hoisted them up into the car. Ha
rry listened anxiou
sly, but there was no sound from th
e Dursleys bedroom. 
When the bars were safely in the 
back seat with Ron, Fred re-versed as close as possible to Harrys window. 
CHAPTER  THREE  26  Get in, Ron said. 
But all my Hogwarts stuff  my wand  my broomstick  Where is it? 
Locked in the cupboard under the stairs, and I cant get out of 
this room  No problem, said George from the front passenger seat. Out 
of the way, Harry. 
Fred and George climbed catlike through the window into 
Harrys room. You had to hand it to them, thought Harry, as George took an ordinary hairpin from his pocket and started to 
pick the lock. 
A lot of wizards think its a waste of time, knowing this sort of 
Muggle trick, said Fred, but we 
feel theyre skills worth learning, 
even if they are a bit slow. 
There was a small click 
and the door swung open. 
So  well get your trunk  yo
u grab anything you need from 
your room and hand it out 
to Ron, whispered George. 
Watch out for the bottom stair  it creaks, Harry whispered 
back as the twins disappeared onto the dark landing. 
Harry dashed around his room, co
llecting his things and passing them out of the window to Ron. 
Then he went to help Fred and 
George heave his trunk up the stairs. Harry heard Uncle Vernon 
cough. At last, panting, they reached th
e landing, then carried the trunk 
through Harrys room to the open window. Fred climbed back into the car to pull with Ron, and Harry and George pushed from the bedroom side. Inch by inch, the trunk slid through the window. Uncle Vernon co
ughed again.  THE  BURROW  27  A bit more, panted Fred, who wa
s pulling from inside the car. 
One good push  Harry and George threw their shoulders against the trunk and it 
slid out of the window into the back seat of the car. 
Okay, lets go, George whispered. 
But as Harry climbed onto the 
windowsill there came a sudden loud screech from behind him, fo
llowed immediately by the thun-
der of Uncle Vernons voice. 
THAT RUDDY OWL! 
Ive forgotten Hedwig! 
Harry tore back across the room as the landing light clicked 
on  he snatched up Hedwigs cage, dashed to the window, and 
passed it out to Ron. He was scrambling back onto the chest of 
drawers when Uncle Vernon hammered on the unlocked door  
and it crashed open. 
For a split second, Uncle Vernon stood framed in the doorway; then he let out a bellow like an angry bull and dived at Harry, 
grabbing him by the ankle. 
Ron, Fred, and George seized Harrys arms and pulled as hard as they could. Petunia! roared Uncle Vern
on. Hes getting away! HES 
GETTING AWAY! 
But the Weasleys gave a gigantic tug and Harrys leg slid out of 
Uncle Vernons grasp  Harry was 
in the car  hed slammed the door shut  Put your foot down, Fred! yelled Ron, and the car shot sud-
denly toward the moon. 
Harry couldnt believe it  he wa
s free. He rolled down the  
 CHAPTER  THREE  28  window, the night air whipping hi
s hair, and looked back at the shrinking rooftops of Privet Dr
ive. Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petu-
nia, and Dudley were all hanging, dumbstruck, out of Harrys window. See you next summe
r! Harry yelled. The Weasleys roared with laughter and Harry settled back in his seat, grinning from ear to ear. 
Let Hedwig out, he told Ron.
 She can fly behind us. She hasnt had a chance
 to stretch her wings for ages. 
George handed the hairpin to Ron and, a moment later, Hedwig 
soared joyfully out of the window
 to glide alongside them like a 
ghost. So  whats the story, Harry? said Ron impatiently. Whats been happening? 
Harry told them all about Dobby, 
the warning hed given Harry and the fiasco of the violet pudding. There was a long, shocked si-
lence when he had finished. 
Very fishy, said Fred finally. 
Definitely dodgy, agreed George. So he wouldnt even tell 
you whos supposed to be plotting all this stuff? 
I dont think he could, said Ha
rry. I told you, every time he got close to letting something slip, he started banging his head 
against the wall. He saw Fred and George look at each other. 
What, you think he was ly
ing to me? said Harry. 
Well, said Fred, put it this
 way  house-elves have got pow-
erful magic of their own, but they 
cant usually use it without their 
masters permission. I reckon old 
Dobby was sent to stop you com- 
 THE  BURROW  29  ing back to Hogwarts. Someones idea of a joke. Can you think of anyone at school with a grudge against you? 
Yes, said Harry and Ro
n together, instantly. Draco Malfoy, Harry explained. He hates me. 
Draco Malfoy? said George, turning around. Not Lucius 
Malfoys son? 
Must be, its not a very common name, is it? said Harry. 
Why? 
Ive heard Dad talking about him, said George. He was a big 
supporter of You-Know-Who. 
And when You-Know-Who disappeared, said Fred, craning 
around to look at Harry, Luciu
s Malfoy came back saying hed 

never meant any of it. Load of dung  Dad 
reckons he was right 
in You-Know-Whos inner circle. 
Harry had heard these rumors about Malfoys family before, and 
they didnt surprise him at all. 
Malfoy made Dudley Dursley look 
like a kind, thoughtful, and sensitive boy. 
I dont know whether the Malfoys own a house-elf. . . . said 
Harry. Well, whoever owns him will be
 an old wizarding family, and theyll be rich, said Fred. 
Yeah, Mums always wishing we had a house-elf to do the iron-ing, said George. But all weve go
t is a lousy old ghoul in the at-
tic and gnomes all over the garden. House-elves come with big old 
manors and castles and places like that; you wouldnt catch one in 
our house. . . . Harry was silent. Judging by the fact that Draco Malfoy usually 
had the best of everything, his family
 was rolling in wizard gold; he  
 CHAPTER  THREE  30  could just see Malfoy strutting ar
ound a large manor house. Send-
ing the family servant to stop Ha
rry from going back to Hogwarts 
also sounded exactly like the sort of thing Malfoy would do. Had Harry been stupid to take Dobby seriously? 
Im glad we came to get you, an
yway, said Ron. I was getting 
really worried when you didnt an
swer any of my 
letters. I thought it was Errols fa
ult at first  
Whos Errol? 
Our owl. Hes ancient. It wouldn
t be the first time hed col-lapsed on a delivery. So then I tried to borrow Hermes  
Who? The owl Mum and Dad bought Percy when he was made pre-fect, said Fred from the front. 
But Percy wouldnt lend him to 
me, said Ron. Said he needed 
him. 
Percys been acting very oddly this summer, said George, frowning. And he has been sending a lot of
 letters and spending a load of time shut up in his room. 
. . . I mean, theres only so many 
times you can polish a 
prefect badge. . . . Yo
ure driving too far 
west, Fred, he added, pointing at a compass on the dashboard. 
Fred twiddled the 
steering wheel. 
So, does your dad know youve got the car? said Harry, guess-ing the answer. 
Er, no, said Ron, he had to work tonight. Hopefully well be able to get it back in the garage 
without Mum noticing we flew it. 
What does your dad do at the Ministry of Magic, anyway? 
He works in the most boring 
department, said Ron. The 
Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office. 
 THE  BURROW  31  The 
what
? Its all to do with bewitching th
ings that are Muggle-made, you 
know, in case they end up back in a Muggle shop 
or house. Like, last year, some old witch died and her tea set was sold to an an-
tiques shop. This Muggle woman 
bought it, took it home, and 
tried to serve her friends tea in 
it. It was a nightmare  Dad was 
working overtime for weeks. 
What happened? 
The teapot went berserk and sq
uirted boiling tea all over the 
place and one man ended up in th
e hospital with the sugar tongs 
clamped to his nose. Dad was going frantic  its only him and an 

old warlock called Perkins in the office  and they had to do 
Memory Charms and all sorts of
 stuff to cover it up  
But your dad  this car  
Fred laughed. Yeah, Dads crazy about everything to do with 
Muggles; our sheds full of Muggle stuff. He takes it apart, puts 
spells on it, and puts it back together again. If he raided 
our house 
hed have to put himself unde
r arrest. It drives Mum mad. 
Thats the main road, said George, peering down through the 
windshield. Well be there in ten minutes. . . . Just as well, its get-
ting light. . . . A faint pinkish glow was visible 
along the horizon to the east. 
Fred brought the car lower, and Harry saw a dark patchwork of fields and clumps of trees. Were a little way outside the 
village, said George. Ottery St. 
Catchpole. 
Lower and lower went the flying car. The edge of a brilliant red 
sun was now gleaming through the trees. 
 CHAPTER  THREE  32  Touchdown! said Fred as, with
 a slight bump, they hit the 
ground. They had landed next to 
a tumbledown garage in a small 
yard, and Harry looked out for th
e first time at Rons house. 
It looked as though it had once been a large stone pigpen, but 
extra rooms had been added here and there until it was several sto-
ries high and so crooked it looked as though it were held up by 

magic (which, Harry reminded himself, it probably was). Four or 
five chimneys were perched on top of the red roof. A lopsided sign 

stuck in the ground near the entrance read, 
the burrow. Around 
the front door lay a jumble of ru
bber boots and a very rusty caul-dron. Several fat brown chickens were pecking their way around 

the yard. Its not much, said Ron. 

Its 
wonderful,
 said Harry happily, thinking of Privet Drive. 
They got out of the car. 

Now, well go upstairs really qu
ietly, said Fred, and wait for 
Mum to call us for breakfast. 
Then, Ron, you come bounding 
downstairs going, Mum, look who turned up in the night! and 
shell be all pleased to see Harry and no on
e need ever know we 
flew the car. 
Right, said Ron. Come on, 
Harry, I sleep at the  at the 
top  Ron had gone a nasty greenish color,
 his eyes fixed on the house. The other three wheeled around. 
Mrs. Weasley was marching across the yard, scattering chickens, 
and for a short, plump, kind-faced
 woman, it was remarkable how 
much she looked like a saber-toothed tiger. 
Ah, said Fred. 
 THE  BURROW  33  Oh, dear, said George. Mrs. Weasley came to a halt in front of them, her hands on her 
hips, staring from one guilty face
 to the next. She was wearing a 
flowered apron with a wand 
sticking out of the pocket. 
So, she said. 
Morning, Mum, said George, in
 what he clearly thought was 
a jaunty, winning voice. 
Have you any idea how worried Ive been?
 said Mrs. Weasley 
in a deadly whisper. 
Sorry, Mum, but see, we had to  
All three of Mrs. Weasleys sons 
were taller than she was, but 
they cowered as her rage broke over them.
 Beds empty
! No note! Car gone  could have crashed  out of my 
mind with worry  did you care
?  never, as long as Ive lived  you wait until your father gets home, we never 
had trouble like this 
from Bill or Charlie or Percy 
 Perfect Percy, muttered Fred. 

YOU COULD DO WITH TAKING A LEAF OUT OF PERCYS BOOK! yelled Mrs. Weasley, prodding a finger in Freds chest. You could have 
died, you could have been seen, you could have lost your father his 
job  
It seemed to go on for hours. 
Mrs. Weasley had shouted herself 
hoarse before she turned on
 Harry, who backed away. 
Im very pleased to see you, Harry, dear, she said. Come in and have some breakfast. 
She turned and walked back in
to the house and Harry, after a 
nervous glance at Ron, who nodded encouragingly, followed her. 
The kitchen was small and rather cramped. There was a  
 CHAPTER  THREE  34  scrubbed wooden table and chairs in the middle, and Harry sat 
down on the edge of his seat, looking around
. He had never been 
in a wizard house before. 
The clock on the wall opposite 
him had only one hand and no numbers at all. Written around the edge were things like Time to 
make tea, Time to feed the chickens,
 and Youre late.
 Books were stacked three deep on the mantelpiece, books with titles like 

Charm Your Own Cheese, Enchantment in Baking, and One Minute Feasts  Its Magic
! And unless Harrys ears were deceiving him, the 
old radio next to the sink had just announced that coming up was 
Witching Hour, with the popular singing sorceress, Celestina 
Warbeck. Mrs. Weasley was clattering around, cooking breakfast a little 
haphazardly, throwing dirty looks at her sons as she threw sausages 
into the frying pan. Every now an
d then she muttered things like 
dont know 
what you were thinking of, and never would have believed it. I dont blame 
you, dear, she assured Ha
rry, tipping eight or 
nine sausages onto his plate. Arthur and I have been worried about 
you, too. Just last night we were
 saying wed come and get you our-selves if you hadnt written back to Ron by Friday. But really (she 
was now adding three fried eggs to 
his plate), flying an illegal car 
halfway across the country  anyone could have seen you  
She flicked her wand casually at the dishes in the sink, which be-gan to clean themselves, clinki
ng gently in the background. 
It was 
cloudy, Mum! said Fred. 
You keep your mouth closed while youre eating! Mrs. Weasley snapped. They were starving him, Mum! said George. THE  BURROW  35  And you! said Mrs. Weasley, bu
t it was with a slightly softened 
expression that she started cutting Harry bread and buttering it for him. At that moment there was a diversion in the form of a small, red-
headed figure in a long nightdre
ss, who appeared in the kitchen, 
gave a small squeal, and ran out again. 
Ginny, said Ron in an undertone to Harry. My sister. Shes 
been talking about you all summer. 
Yeah, shell be wanting your au
tograph, Harry, 
Fred said with 
a grin, but he caught his mothers
 eye and bent his face over his 
plate without another word. Nothin
g more was said until all four 
plates were clean, which took
 a surprisingly short time. 
Blimey,
 Im tired, yawned Fred, 
setting down his knife and 
fork at last. I think Ill go to bed and  
You will not, snapped Mrs. Weasley. Its your own fault 
youve been up all night. Youre going to de-gnome the garden for 

me; theyre getting completely out of hand again  
Oh, Mum  And you two, she said, glaring at Ron and Fred. You can go 
up to bed, dear, she added to Harry. You didnt ask them to fly 
that wretched car  
But Harry, who felt wide awake, said quickly, Ill help Ron. Ive 
never seen a de-gnoming  
Thats very sweet of you, dear, but its dull work, said Mrs. 
Weasley. Now, lets see what 
Lockharts got to say on the 
subject  And she pulled a heavy book from the stack on the mantelpiece. 
George groaned. Mum, we know how to de-gnome a garden  CHAPTER  THREE  36  Harry looked at the cover of Mrs. Weasleys book. Written across it in fancy gold letters were the words 
Gilderoy Lockharts Guide to 
Household Pests. There was a big photograph on the front of a very 
good-looking wizard with wavy blond hair and bright blue eyes. As always in the wizarding world, the photograph was moving; the wizard, who Harry supposed was Gilderoy Lockhart, kept winking cheekily up at them
 all. Mrs. Weasley beamed down at him. 
Oh, he is marvelous, she said. He knows his household pests, all right, its a wonderful book. . . . 
Mum fancies
 him, said Fred, in a very audible whisper. 
Dont be so ridiculous, Fred, 
said Mrs. Weasley, her cheeks rather pink. All right, if you t
hink you know better than Lockhart, 
you can go and get on with it, an
d woe betide you if theres a sin-gle gnome in that garden when
 I come out to inspect it. 
Yawning and grumbling, the Weasleys slouched outside with 
Harry behind them. The garden was la
rge, and in Harrys eyes, ex-actly what a garden should be. The Dursleys wouldnt have liked 
it  there were plenty of weeds,
 and the grass needed cutting  
but there were gnarled trees all 
around the walls, plants Harry had 
never seen spilling from every flow
er bed, and a big green pond full of frogs. Muggles have garden gnomes, too, you know, Harry told Ron 
as they crossed the lawn. Yeah, Ive seen those things they
 think are gnomes, said Ron, 
bent double with his head in a peony bush, like fat little Santa 
Clauses with fishing rods. . . . 
There was a violent scuffling nois
e, the peony bush shuddered, and Ron straightened up. 
This is a gnome, he said grimly. 
 THE  BURROW  37  Gerroff me! Gerroff me! squealed the gnome. 
It was certainly nothing like Sant
a Claus. It was small and leath-ery looking, with a large, knobby, 
bald head exactly like a potato. 
Ron held it at arms length as it 
kicked out at him with its horny lit-
tle feet; he grasped it around the 
ankles and turned it upside down. This is what you have to do, he said. He raised the gnome 
above his head (Gerroff me!) and st
arted to swing it in great cir-
cles like a lasso. Seeing the sh
ocked look on Harrys face, Ron 
added, It doesnt 
hurt 
them  youve just got 
to make them really 
dizzy so they cant 
find their way back to the gnomeholes. 
He let go of the gnomes ankles: 
It flew twenty 
feet into the air 
and landed with a thud in 
the field over the hedge. 
Pitiful, said Fred. I bet I 
can get mine beyond that stump. 
Harry learned quickly not to feel too sorry for the gnomes. He decided just to drop the first one he caught over the hedge, but the 
gnome, sensing weakness, sank its razor-sharp teeth into Harrys finger and he had a hard jo
b shaking it off  until  
Wow, Harry  that mustve 
been fifty feet. . . . 
The air was soon thick with flying gnomes. 
See, theyre not too bright, sa
id George, seizing five or six 
gnomes at once. The moment th
ey know the de-gnomings going on they storm up to have a look. Youd think theyd have learned by 
now just to stay put. 
Soon, the crowd of gnomes in th
e field started walking away in 
a straggling line, their li
ttle shoulders hunched. 
Theyll be back, said Ron as they watched the gnomes disap-
pear into the hedge on 
the other side of the field. They love it 
here. . . . Dads too soft with them; he thinks theyre funny. . . .  CHAPTER  THREE  38  Just then, the front door slammed. Hes back! said George. Dads home! 
They hurried through the garden
 and back into the house. Mr. Weasley was slumped in a kitc
hen chair with his glasses off and his eyes closed. He was a thin man, going bald, but the little 
hair he had was as red as any of his childrens. He was wearing long 
green robes, which were dusty and travel-worn. What a night, he mumbled, groping for the teapot as they all 
sat down around him. Nine raids. Nine! And old Mundungus 
Fletcher tried to put a hex on me when I had my back turned. . . . 
Mr. Weasley took a long gulp of tea and sighed. 
Find anything, Dad? said Fred eagerly. 
All I got were a few shrinking door keys and a biting kettle, yawned Mr. Weasley. There was 
some pretty nasty stuff that wasnt my department, 
though. Mortlake was taken away for ques-
tioning about some extremely odd ferrets, but thats the Commit-tee on Experimental Charms, thank goodness. . . . Why would anyone bother making door keys shrink? said George. Just Muggle-baiting, sighed Mr. 
Weasley. Sell them a key that 
keeps shrinking to nothing so they
 can never find it when they 
need it. . . . Of course, its very hard to convict anyone because no 
Muggle would admit their key keeps shrinking  theyll insist 
they just keep losing it. Bless them, theyll go to any lengths to ig-
nore magic, even if its staring th
em in the face. . . . But the things 
our lot have taken to enchanting, you wouldnt believe  
LIKE CARS, FOR INSTANCE? 

Mrs. Weasley had appeared, holding a long poker like a sword. 
Mr. Weasleys eyes jerk
ed open. He stared gu
iltily at his wife. 
THE  BURROW  39  C-cars, Molly, dear? 
Yes, Arthur, cars, said Mrs. Weasley, her eyes flashing. Imag-ine a wizard buying a rusty old car 
and telling his wife all he wanted 
to do with it was take it apar
t to see how it worked, while 
really he was enchanting it to make it 
fly. Mr. Weasley blinked. Well, dear, I think youll find th
at he would be quite within the 
law to do that, even if  er  he maybe would have done better 
to, um, tell his wife the truth. . . 
. Theres a loophole in the law, 
youll find. . . . As long as he wasnt 
intending to fly the car, the fact that the car could fly wouldnt  
Arthur Weasley, you made sure there was a loophole when you 
wrote that law! shouted Mrs. Weasley. Just so you could carry on tinkering with all that Muggle ru
bbish in your shed! And for your 
information, Harry arrived this morning in the car you werent in-
tending to fly! 
Harry? said Mr. Weasley blankly. Harry who? He looked around, saw Harry, and jumped. 
Good lord, is it Harry Potter? Very pleased to meet you, Rons 
told us so much about  
Your sons flew that car to Harrys house and back last night
! shouted Mrs. Weasley. What have you got to say about that, eh? 
Did you really? said Mr. Weasley 
eagerly. Did it go all right? I  I mean, he faltered as sparks flew from Mrs. Weasleys eyes, 
that  that was very wrong, bo
ys  very wrong indeed. . . . 
Lets leave them to it, Ron mu
ttered to Harry as Mrs. Weasley 
swelled like a bullfrog. Come on, Ill show you my bedroom. 
They slipped out of the kitchen and down a narrow passageway 
to an uneven staircase, which 
wound its way, 
zigzagging up CHAPTER  THREE  40  through the house. On the third landing, a door stood ajar. Harry just caught sight of a pair of br
ight brown eyes staring at him be-
fore it closed with a snap. 
Ginny, said Ron. You dont know how weird it is for her to be 
this shy. She never sh
uts up normally  
They climbed two more flights until they reached a door with peeling paint and a small 
plaque on it, saying 
ronalds room
. Harry stepped in, his head almost touching the sloping ceiling, 
and blinked. It was like walking in
to a furnace: Nearly everything 
in Rons room seemed to be a violent shade of orange: the bed-
spread, the walls, even the ceiling. Then Harry realized that Ron 

had covered nearly every inch of th
e shabby wallpaper with posters 
of the same seven witches and wizards, all wearing bright orange 

robes, carrying broomsticks, 
and waving energetically. 
Your Quidditch team? said Harry. 

The Chudley Cannons, said Ron, pointing at the orange bed-
spread, which was emblazoned with two giant black Cs and a 
speeding cannonball. N
inth in the league. 
Rons school spellbooks were stacke
d untidily in a corner, next to 
a pile of comics that all seemed to feature 
The Adventures of Martin 
Miggs, the Mad Muggle.
 Rons magic wand was lying on top of a fish 
tank full of frog spawn on the windowsill, next to his fat gray rat, 
Scabbers, who was snoozing in a patch of sun. 
Harry stepped over a pack of Self-Shuffling playing cards on the 
floor and looked out of the tiny window. In the field far below he 
could see a gang of gnomes sneaking one by one back through the 
Weasleys hedge. Then he turned to look at Ron, who was watch-
ing him almost nervously, as th
ough waiting for his opinion. 
 THE  BURROW  41  Its a bit small, said Ron quickl
y. Not like that room you had with the Muggles. And Im right underneath the ghoul in the attic; 
hes always banging on the 
pipes and groaning. . . . But Harry, grinning widely, said, T
his is the best house Ive ever 
been in. Rons ears went pink. 
C H A P T E R  F O U R   42  AT FLOURISH 
AND BLOTTS 
  ife at the Burrow was as different 
as possible from life on Privet 
Drive. The Dursleys liked everything neat and ordered; the Weasleys house burst with the strange and unexpected. Harry got 
a shock the first time he looked 
in the mirror over the kitchen man-
telpiece and it shouted, Tuck your shirt in, scruffy! The ghoul in 
the attic howled and dropped pipes whenever he felt things were getting too quiet, and small expl
osions from Fred and Georges bedroom were considered perfectly normal. What Harry found 
most unusual about life at Rons, however, wasnt the talking mir-

ror or the clanking ghoul: It was the fact that everybody there 
seemed to like him. 
Mrs. Weasley fussed over the state of his socks and tried to force 
him to eat fourth helpings at ev
ery meal. Mr. Weasley liked Harry to sit next to him at the dinner table so that he could bombard him with questions about life with Muggles, asking him to explain how 
things like plugs and the postal service worked. 
L AT  FLOURISH  AND  BLOTTS  43  Fascinating! he would say as Harry 
talked him through using a telephone. 
Ingenious,
 really, how many ways Muggles have found 
of getting along without magic. 
Harry heard from Hogwarts one sunny morning about a week after he had arrived at the Burrow. He and Ron went down to breakfast to find Mr. and Mrs. 
Weasley and Ginny already sitting at the kitchen table. The moment
 she saw Harry, Ginny acciden-
tally knocked her porridge bowl to the floor with a loud clatter. 

Ginny seemed very prone to knocking things over whenever Harry 
entered a room. She dived under the table to retrieve the bowl and 
emerged with her face glowing like the setting sun.
 Pretending he hadnt noticed this, Harry sat down and took the toast Mrs. 
Weasley offered him. 
Letters from school, said Mr. Weasley, passing Harry and Ron 
identical envelopes of yellowish parchment, addressed in green ink. 
Dumbledore already knows you
re here, Harry  doesnt miss a 
trick, that man. You twove got them, too, he added, as Fred and George ambled in, sti
ll in their pajamas. For a few minutes there was silence 
as they all read their letters. 
Harrys told him to catch the Hogwarts Express as usual from 
Kings Cross station on September fi
rst. There was also a list of the 
new books hed need 
for the coming year. second-year students will require: The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 2
 by Miranda Goshawk
 Break with a Banshee
 by Gilderoy Lockhart Gadding with Ghouls
 by Gilderoy Lockhart Holidays with Hags
 by Gilderoy Lockhart CHAPTER  FOUR  44  Travels with Trolls
 by Gilderoy Lockhart Voyages with Vampires
 by Gilderoy Lockhart
 Wanderings with Werewolves
 by Gilderoy Lockhart
 Year with the Yeti by Gilderoy Lockhart 
Fred, who had finished his own list, peered over at Harrys. 
Youve been told to get all Lockharts books, too! he said. The 
new Defense Against the Dark Arts 
teacher must be a fan  bet its 
a witch. 
At this point, Fred caught his mothers eye and quickly busied 
himself with the marmalade. 
That lot wont come cheap, said
 George, with a quick look at his parents. Lockhar
ts books are really 
expensive. . . . Well, well manage, said Mrs.
 Weasley, but she looked wor-
ried. I expect well be able to 
pick up a lot of Ginnys things 
secondhand. 
Oh, are you starting at Hogwarts this year? Harry asked 
Ginny. She nodded, blushing to the roots of her flaming hair, and put her elbow in the butter dish. Fortunately no one saw this except Harry, because just then Rons elder brother Percy walked in. He 

was already dressed, his Hogwarts prefect badge pinned to his 
sweater vest. Morning, all, said Percy briskly. Lovely day. 
He sat down in the only remaining chair but leapt up again al-
most immediately, pulling from 
underneath him a molting, gray 
feather duster  at least, that was what Harry thought it was, un-

til he saw that it was breathing. 

 AT  FLOURISH  AND  BLOTTS  45  Errol! said Ron, taking the limp owl from Percy and extracting a letter from under its wing. 
Finally  hes got Hermiones an-swer. I wrote to her sa
ying we were going to
 try and rescue you 
from the Dursleys. 
He carried Errol to a perch just inside the back door and tried to stand him on it, but Errol flopped straight off again so Ron laid 
him on the draining board instead, muttering, Pathetic. Then he 
ripped open Hermiones lett
er and read it out loud: Dear Ron, and Harry if youre there, 
I hope everything went all right and that Harry is okay and that 
you didnt do anything illegal to get him out, Ron, because that would 
get Harry into trouble, too. Ive been
 really worried and if Harry is all 
right, will you please let me know at once, but perhaps it would be bet-

ter if you used a different owl, be
cause I think another delivery might finish your one off. 
Im very busy with schoolwork, of course
  How can she be? 
said Ron in horror. Were on vacation!  
and were going to Lon-
don next Wednesday to buy my new 
books. Why dont we meet in Di-
agon Alley? Let me know whats happening as soon as you can. Love from 
Hermione. 
Well, that fits in nicely, we can go and get all your things then, 
too, said Mrs. Weasley, starting to clear the table. Whatre you all 
up to today? 
Harry, Ron, Fred, and George were planning to go up the hill to 
a small paddock the Weasleys ow
ned. It was surrounded by trees 
that blocked it from view of the village below, meaning that they 
could practice Quidditch there, as long as they didnt fly too high.  
 CHAPTER  FOUR  46  They couldnt use real Quidditch balls, which would have been 
hard to explain if they had escaped and flown away over the village; 
instead they threw apples for one an
other to catch. They took turns 
riding Harrys Nimbus Two Thousand, which was easily the best 
broom; Rons old Shooting Star wa
s often outstripped by passing 
butterflies. 
Five minutes later they were ma
rching up the hill, broomsticks 
over their shoulders. They had asked Percy if he wanted to join 
them, but he had said he was bu
sy. Harry had only seen Percy at mealtimes so far; he stayed shut 
in his room the rest of the time. Wish I knew what he was up to, said Fred, frowning. Hes not 
himself. His exam results came th
e day before you did; twelve 
O.W.L.s and he hardly
 gloated at all. Ordinary Wizarding Levels, Ge
orge explained, seeing Harrys 
puzzled look. Bill got twelve, too. 
If were not careful, well have 
another Head Boy in the family. 
I dont think I 
could stand the 
shame. 
Bill was the oldest Weasley brot
her. He and the next brother, Charlie, had already left Hogwarts. Harry had never met either of them, but knew that Charlie was 
in Romania studying dragons and Bill in Egypt working for the wizards bank, Gringotts. 
Dunno how Mum and Dad are goin
g to afford all our school stuff this year, said George afte
r a while. Five sets of Lockhart 
books! And Ginny needs robes and 
a wand and everything. . . . 
Harry said nothing. He felt a bit awkward. Stored in an under-
ground vault at Gringotts in Lon
don was a small fortune that his 
parents had left him. Of course, it was only in the wizarding world 

that he had money; you couldnt use Galleons, Sickles, and Knuts  
 AT  FLOURISH  AND  BLOTTS  47  in Muggle shops. He had never mentioned his Gringotts bank ac-count to the Dursleys; he didnt 
think their horror of anything con-
nected with magic would stretc
h to a large pile of gold.  Mrs. Weasley woke them all early the following Wednesday. After 
a quick half a dozen bacon sandwi
ches each, they pulled on their coats and Mrs. Weasley took a fl
owerpot off the kitchen mantel-
piece and peer
ed inside. Were running low, Arthur, she sighed. Well have to buy 
some more today. . . . Ah well, gu
ests first! After you, Harry dear! 
And she offered him the flowerpot. 
Harry stared at them all watching him. 
W-what am I supposed to
 do? he stammered. Hes never traveled by Floo powder, said Ron suddenly. Sorry, 
Harry, I forgot. 
Never? said Mr. Weasley. But how did you get to Diagon Al-
ley to buy your school
 things last year? 
I went on the Underground  Really? said Mr. Weasley eagerly. Were there 
escapators? How exactly  Not now,
 Arthur, said Mrs. Weasley. Floo powders a lot 
quicker, dear, but goodness me, if youve never used it before  
Hell be all right, Mum, said Fred. Harry, watch us first. 
He took a pinch of glittering powder out of the flowerpot, stepped up to the fire, and threw the powd
er into the flames. 
With a roar, the fire turned emer
ald green and rose higher than Fred, who stepped right into it, shouted, Diagon Alley! and van-
ished.  CHAPTER  FOUR  48  You must speak clearly, dear, Mrs. Weasley told Harry as George dipped his hand into the flowerpot. And be sure to get out 
at the right grate. . . . The right what? said Harry nervously as the fire roared and 
whipped George out of sight, too. 
Well, there are an awful lot of wizard fires to choose from, you 
know, but as long as youve spoken clearly  
Hell be fine, Molly, dont fuss,
 said Mr. Weasley, helping him-
self to Floo powder, too. But, dear, if he got lost, how wo
uld we ever explain to his aunt and uncle? 
They wouldnt mind, Harry reassured her. Dudley would 
think it was a brilliant joke if I 
got lost up a chimney, dont worry 
about that  
Well . . . all right . . . you go after Arthur, said Mrs. Weasley. 
Now, when you get into the fi
re, say where youre going  
And keep your elbows tucked in, Ron advised. 
And your eyes shut, said 
Mrs. Weasley. The soot  
Dont fidget, said Ron. Or 
you might well fa
ll out of the wrong fireplace  But dont panic and get out too early; wait until you see Fred 
and George. 
Trying hard to bear all this in mind, Harry took a pinch of Floo powder and walked to the edge of 
the fire. He took a deep breath, 
scattered the powder into the flam
es, and stepped forward; the fire 
felt like a warm breeze; he opened his mouth and immediately 
swallowed a lot of hot ash. D-Dia-gon Alley, he coughed. 
 AT  FLOURISH  AND  BLOTTS  49  It felt as though he were bein
g sucked down a giant drain. He 
seemed to be spinning very fast 
 the roaring in his ears was deaf-
ening  he tried to keep his ey
es open but the whirl of green 
flames made him feel sick  something hard knocked his elbow 
and he tucked it in tightly, stil
l spinning and spinning  now it 
felt as though cold hands were
 slapping his face  squinting 
through his glasses he saw a blurred stream of fireplaces and 
snatched glimpses of the rooms 
beyond  his bacon sandwiches were churning inside 
him  he closed his eyes again wishing it 
would stop, and then  He fell, face forward, onto cold stone and felt the bridge of his 
glasses snap. 
Dizzy and bruised, covered in soot, he got gingerly to his feet, 
holding his broken glasses up to his eyes. He was quite alone, but 
where he was, he had no idea. All 
he could tell was that he was standing in the stone fireplace of wh
at looked like a large, dimly lit 
wizards shop  but nothing in he
re was ever likely to be on a Hogwarts school list. 
A glass case nearby held a withered hand on a cushion, a blood-stained pack of cards, and a star
ing glass eye. Evil-looking masks stared down from the walls, an assortment of human bones lay 
upon the counter, and rusty, spiked instruments hung from the 
ceiling. Even worse, the dark
, narrow street Harry could see 
through the dusty shop window wa
s definitely not Diagon Alley. 
The sooner he got out of here, the better. Nose still stinging 
where it had hit the hearth, Harry 
made his way swiftly and silently 
toward the door, but before hed got halfway toward it, two people 
appeared on the other side of the 
glass  and one of them was the  
 CHAPTER  FOUR  50  very last person Harry wanted to meet when he was lost, covered in 
soot, and wearing broken glasses: Draco Malfoy. 
Harry looked quickly around and spotted a large black cabinet 
to his left; he shot inside it an
d pulled the doors closed, leaving a 
small crack to peer through. Seconds later, a bell clanged, and Mal-foy stepped into the shop. 
The man who followed could only 
be Dracos father. He had the same pale, pointed face and identical cold, gray eyes. Mr. Malfoy 
crossed the shop, looking lazily at the items on
 display, and rang a bell on the counter before turning to his son and saying, Touch 

nothing, Draco. 
Malfoy, who had reached for the glass eye, said, I thought you 
were going to buy me a present. 
I said I would buy you a racing broom, said his father, drum-
ming his fingers on the counter. Whats the good of that if Im not on the House team? said Malfoy, looking sulky and bad-
tempered. Harry Potter got a 
Nimbus Two Thousand last year. Special permission from Dum-bledore so he could play for Gryffindor. Hes not even that good, its just because hes famous
 . . . famous for having a stupid scar 
on his forehead. . . . 
Malfoy bent down to examine a shelf full of skulls. 
. . . everyone thinks hes so smart, wonderful Potter
 with his scar 
and his 
broomstick
  You have told me this at leas
t a dozen times already, said Mr. 
Malfoy, with a quelling look at his son. And I would remind you that it is not  prudent  to appear less than fond of Harry Pot-

ter, not when most of our kind re
gard him as the hero who made 
the Dark Lord disappear  ah, Mr. Borgin. AT  FLOURISH  AND  BLOTTS  51  A stooping man had appeared behind the counter, smoothing 
his greasy hair back from his face. 
Mr. Malfoy, what a pleasure to 
see you again, said Mr. Borgin 
in a voice as oily as his hair. 
Delighted  and young Master Mal-
foy, too  charmed. How may I be of assistance? I must show you, 
just in today, and very reasonably priced  
Im not buying today, Mr. Borg
in, but selling, said Mr. Mal-
foy. Selling? The smile faded slig
htly from Mr. Borgins face. 
You have heard, of course, th
at the Ministry is conducting 
more raids, said Mr. Malfoy, taki
ng a roll of parchment from his 
inside pocket and unraveling it for Mr. Borgin to read. I have a 
few  ah  items at home that might embarrass me, if the Min-
istry were to call. . . . Mr. Borgin fixed a pair of pinc
e-nez to his nose and looked 
down the list. The Ministry wouldnt presume 
to trouble you, sir, surely? 
Mr. Malfoys lip curled. 
I have not been visited yet. Th
e name Malfoy still commands a 
certain respect, yet the Ministry grows ever more meddlesome. 
There are rumors about a new Mu
ggle Protection Act  no doubt that flea-bitten, Muggle-loving fool Arthur Weasley is behind 
it  Harry felt a hot surge of anger. 
 and as you see, certain of these poisons might make it ap-
pear  I understand, sir, of course, sa
id Mr. Borgin. Let me see . . . 
Can I have that? interrupted Draco, pointing at the withered 
hand on its cushion. 
CHAPTER  FOUR  52  Ah, the Hand of Glory! said Mr. Borgin, abandoning Mr. 
Malfoys list and scurrying over to Draco. Insert a candle and it 
gives light only to the holder! Best
 friend of thieves and plunderers! Your son has fine taste, sir. 
I hope my son will amount to mo
re than a thief or a plunderer, 
Borgin, said Mr. Malfoy coldly, 
and Mr. Borgin said quickly, No 
offense, sir, no offense meant  
Though if his grades dont pick up, said Mr. Malfoy, more 
coldly still, that may indeed
 be all he is fit for  Its not my fault, retorted Drac
o. The teachers all have fa-
vorites, that Hermione Granger  
I would have thought youd be ashamed that a girl of no wizard family beat you in every 
exam, snapped Mr. Malfoy. 
Ha! said Harry under his breath, pleased to see Draco looking 
both abashed and angry. 
Its the same all over, said Mr. Borgin, in his oily voice. Wiz-
ard blood is counting for less everywhere  
Not with me, said Mr. Malfoy
, his long nost
rils flaring. No, sir, nor with me, sir, said Mr. Borgin, with a deep bow. In that case, perhaps we can return to my list, said Mr. Malfoy 
shortly. I am in something of a hurry, Borgin, I have important 

business elsewhere today  
They started to haggle. Harry watched nervously as Draco drew 
nearer and nearer to his hiding 
place, examining the objects for 

sale. Draco paused to examine a long coil of hangmans rope and to 
read, smirking, the card propped 
on a magnificent necklace of 
opals, Caution: Do Not Touch. Cursed
  Has Claimed the Lives of 
Nineteen Muggle Owners to Date.
  AT  FLOURISH  AND  BLOTTS  53  Draco turned away and saw the ca
binet right in front of him. He walked forward  he stretched 
out his hand for the handle  
Done, said Mr. Malfoy at the counter. Come, Draco  
Harry wiped his forehead on his sleeve as Draco turned away. 
Good day to you, Mr. Borgin. Ill expect you at the manor to-morrow to pick up the goods. The moment the door had closed, Mr. Borgin dropped his oily manner. 
Good day yourself, Mister
 Malfoy, and if the stories are true, 
you havent sold me half 
of whats hidden in your manor.
 . . . Muttering darkly, Mr. Borgin di
sappeared into a back room. Harry waited for a minute in case he
 came back, then, quietly as he 
could, slipped out of the cabinet, past the glass cases, and out of the shop door. Clutching his broken glasses to his face, Harry stared around. 
He had emerged into a dingy alleyway that seemed to be made up 
entirely of shops devoted to the Dark Arts. The one hed just left, 
Borgin and Burkes, looked like the largest, but opposite was a nasty 
window display of shrunken heads and, two doors down, a large 
cage was alive with gigantic black spiders. Two shabby-looking wiz-
ards were watching him from the shadow of a doorway, muttering to each other. Feeling jumpy, Ha
rry set off, trying to hold his 
glasses on straight and hoping against hope hed be able to find a 
way out of here. 
An old wooden street sign hanging over a shop selling poiso-
nous candles told him he was in
 Knockturn Alley. This didnt 
help, as Harry had never heard of such a place. He supposed he 
hadnt spoken clearly enough th
rough his mouthful of ashes  
 CHAPTER  FOUR  54  back in the Weasleys fire. Trying to stay ca
lm, he wondered what 
to do. Not lost are you, my dear? said
 a voice in his ear, making him jump. 
An aged witch stood in front of him, holding a tray of what looked horribly like whole human 
fingernails. She leered at him, showing mossy teeth. Harry backed away. Im fine, thanks, he said. Im just  
HARRY! What dyeh think yer doin down there? 
Harrys heart leapt. So did the wi
tch; a load of fingernails cas-
caded down over her feet and she cursed as the massive form of 
Hagrid, the Hogwarts gamekeeper
, came striding toward them, 
beetle-black eyes flashing over
 his great bristling beard. 
Hagrid! Harry croaked in relief. I was lost  Floo pow-
der  Hagrid seized Harry by the scruff of the neck and pulled him away from the witch, knocking the tray right out of her hands. Her 
shrieks followed them all the way 
along the twisting alleyway out 
into bright sunlight. Harry saw 
a familiar, snow-white marble building in the distance  Grin
gotts Bank. Hagrid had steered 
him right into Diagon Alley. 
Yer a mess! said Hagrid gruffly, brushing soot off Harry so 
forcefully he nearly knocked him in
to a barrel of dragon dung out-
side an apothecary. Skulkin around Knockturn Alley, I dunno  
dodgy place, Harry  don want no one ter see yeh down there  
I realized that, said Harry, ducking as Hagrid made to brush him off again. I told you, I was lost  what were you doing down 

there, anyway?  AT  FLOURISH  AND  BLOTTS  55  I was lookin fer a Flesh-Eatin
 Slug Repellent, growled Ha-grid. Theyre ruinin the school
 cabbages. Yer not on yer own? 
Im staying with the Weasleys but we got separated, Harry ex-plained. Ive got to go
 and find them. . . . They set off together
 down the street. 
How come yeh never wrote back 
ter me? said Hagrid as Harry jogged alongside him (he had to take
 three steps to every stride of 
Hagrids enormous bo
ots). Harry explained all about Dobby and 
the Dursleys. 
Lousy Muggles, growled Hagrid. If Idve known  
Harry! Harry! Over here! 
Harry looked up and saw Hermione Granger standing at the top of the white flight of steps to Gringotts. She ran down to meet 
them, her bushy brown hair flying behind her. What happened to your glasses? Hello, Hagrid  Oh, its 
wonderful
 to see you two again  Are you coming into Gringotts, 
Harry? 
As soon as Ive found the Weasleys, said Harry. 
Yeh wont have long ter wait, Hagrid said with a grin. 
Harry and Hermione looked around: Sprinting up the crowded street were Ron, Fred, Geor
ge, Percy, and Mr. Weasley. 
Harry, Mr. Weasley panted. We 
hoped youd only gone one grate too far. . . . He mopped his glistening bald patch. Mollys 
frantic  shes coming now  
Where did you come
 out? Ron asked. Knockturn Alley, said Hagrid grimly. 
Excellent
! said Fred and George together. 
Weve never been allowed 
in, said Ron enviously. 
 CHAPTER  FOUR  56  I should ruddy well think not, growled Hagrid. Mrs. Weasley now came galloping into view, her handbag swing-
ing wildly in one hand, Ginny ju
st clinging onto the other. 
Oh, Harry  oh, my dear  you could have been any-
where  
Gasping for breath she pulled a 
large clothes brush out of her bag and began sweeping off the s
oot Hagrid hadnt managed to 
beat away. Mr. Weasley took Harrys glasses, ga
ve them a tap of his wand, and returned them, good as new. Well, gotta be off, said Ha
grid, who was having his hand wrung by Mrs. Weasley (Knockturn Alley! If you hadnt found 
him, Hagrid!). See yer at Hogwarts! And he strode away, head 
and shoulders taller than anyone
 else in the packed street. 
Guess who I saw in Borgin an
d Burkes? Harry asked Ron and 
Hermione as they climbed the Grin
gotts steps. Malfoy and his fa-
ther. Did Lucius Malfoy buy anything? said Mr. Weasley sharply 
behind them. 
No, he was selling  So hes worried, said Mr. Weasley with grim satisfaction. Oh, 
Id love to get Lucius Malfoy for something. . . . 
You be careful, Arthur, said Mr
s. Weasley sharply as they were 
bowed into the bank by a goblin 
at the door. That familys trou-
ble. Dont go biting off mo
re than you can chew  
So you dont think Im a match for Lucius Malfoy? said Mr. 
Weasley indignantly, but he was distracted almost at once by the 
sight of Hermiones parents, who were standing nervously at the 
counter that ran all along the 
great marble hall, waiting for 
Hermione to in
troduce them. AT  FLOURISH  AND  BLOTTS  57  But youre Muggles! said Mr. Weasley delightedly. We must 
have a drink! Whats that youve
 got there? Oh, youre changing 
Muggle money. Molly, look! He
 pointed excitedly at the ten-
pound notes in Mr. Grangers hand. 
Meet you back here, Ron said to Hermione as the Weasleys 
and Harry were led off to their underground vaults by another 
Gringotts goblin. 
The vaults were reached by means of small, goblin-driven carts 
that sped along minature train tracks through the banks under-
ground tunnels. Harry enjoyed the breakneck journey down to the 

Weasleys vault, but felt dreadful, far worse than he had in Knock-

turn Alley, when it was opened. 
There was a very small pile of sil-
ver Sickles inside, and just one gold Galleon.
 Mrs. Weasley felt 
right into the corners before sweep
ing the whole lot into her bag. 
Harry felt even worse when they 
reached his vault. He tried to 
block the contents from view as he hastily shoved ha
ndfuls of coins 
into a leather bag. 
Back outside on the marble steps, they all separated. Percy mut-
tered vaguely about needing a new quill. Fred and George had spotted their friend from Hogwarts, Lee Jordan. Mrs. Weasley and 
Ginny were going to a secondhand
 robe shop. Mr. Weasley was in-
sisting on taking the Grangers off to the Leaky Cauldron for a 
drink. Well all meet at Flourish and 
Blotts in an hour to buy your 
schoolbooks, said Mrs. Weasley, setting off with Ginny. And not 

one step down Knockturn Alley! she shouted at the twins retreat-
ing backs. Harry, Ron, and Hermione strolled
 off along the winding, cob-bled street. The bag of gold, silver
, and bronze jangling cheerfully 
CHAPTER  FOUR  58  in Harrys pocket was clamoring to be spent, so he bought three 
large strawberry-and-peanut-butter 
ice creams, which they slurped 
happily as they wandered up the 
alley, examining the fascinating shop windows. Ron gazed longingl
y at a full set of Chudley Can-non robes in the windows of Quality Quidditch Supplies until 
Hermione dragged them off to buy ink and parchment next door. 
In Gambol and Japes Wizarding Joke Shop, they met Fred, George, and Lee Jordan, who were stocking up on Dr. Filibusters Fabulous 
Wet-Start, No-Heat Fireworks, and in a tiny junk shop full of bro-

ken wands, lopsided brass scales, and old cloaks covered in potion stains they found Percy, deeply 
immersed in a small and deeply boring book called 
Prefects Who Gained Power.
 A study of Hogwarts prefects and their later careers,
 Ron read 
aloud off the back cover. That sounds 
fascinating.
 . . . Go away, Percy snapped. Course, hes very ambitious, Pe
rcy, hes got it all planned out. . . . He wants to be Minister of Magic . . . Ron told Harry 
and Hermione in an undertone as they 
left Percy to it. An hour later, they headed for Fl
ourish and Blotts. They were by 
no means the only ones making their way to the bookshop. As they approached it, they saw to their surprise a large crowd jostling out-
side the doors, trying to get in. The reason for this was proclaimed by a large banner stretched 
across the upper windows: 
 GILDEROY LOCKHART will be signing copies of his autobiography
 MAGICAL ME today 12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.  AT  FLOURISH  AND  BLOTTS  59  We can actually meet him! Hermione squealed. I mean, hes 
written almost the whole booklist! 
The crowd seemed to be made 
up mostly of witches around 
Mrs. Weasleys age. A harassed-looking wizard stood at the door, saying, Calmly, please, ladies. . . . Dont push, there . . . mind the 
books, now. . . . 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione squeezed inside. A long line wound 
right to the back of the shop, where Gilderoy Lockhart was signing 

his books. They each grabbed a copy of The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 2 and sneaked up the line to where the rest of the Weasleys were standing with Mr. and Mrs. Granger. 
Oh, there you are, good, said Mrs. Weasley. She sounded breathless and kept patting her hair. Well be able to see him in a 

minute. . . . Gilderoy Lockhart came slowly into view, seated at a table 
surrounded by large pictures of his own face, all winking and 

flashing dazzlingly white teeth at the crowd. The real Lockhart was wearing robes of forget-me-not blue that exactly matched his eyes; his pointed wizards hat was set at a jaunty angle on his wavy 
hair. A short, irritable-looking man 
was dancing around taking pho-
tographs with a large black camera that emitted puffs of purple 
smoke with every blinding flash. 
Out of the way, there, he snarle
d at Ron, moving
 back to get a 
better shot. This is for the Daily Prophet
  Big deal, said Ron, rubbing his foot where the photographer 
had stepped on it. Gilderoy Lockhart heard him. 
He looked up. He saw Ron    CHAPTER  FOUR  60  and then he saw Harry. He star
ed. Then he leapt to his feet and positively shouted, It 
cant
 be Harry Potter? 
The crowd parted, whispering ex
citedly; Lockhart dived for-
ward, seized Harrys arm, and pulled him to the front. The crowd 
burst into applause. Ha
rrys face burned as Lockhart shook his 
hand for the photographer, who wa
s clicking away madly, wafting 
thick smoke over the Weasleys. 
Nice big smile, Harry, said 
Lockhart, through his own gleam-
ing teeth. Together, you and 
I are worth the front page. 
When he finally let go of Harrys hand, Harry could hardly feel his fingers. He tried to sidle back over to the Weasleys, but Lock-
hart threw an arm around his shou
lders and clamped him tightly to his side. 
Ladies and gentlemen, he said 
loudly, waving for quiet. What 
an extraordinary moment this is
! The perfect moment for me to 
make a little announcement Ive 
been sitting on for some time! 
When young Harry here stepped 
into Flourish and Blotts to-
day, he only wanted to buy my autobiography  which I shall 
be happy to present him now, free of charge  The crowd 
applauded again. He had no idea, Lockhart continued, giving 
Harry a little shake that made his glasses slip to the end of his nose, 
that he would shortly be getting much, much more than my book, 
Magical Me. He and his schoolmates will, in fact, be getting the real 
magical me. Yes, ladies and gentle
men, I have great pleasure and 
pride in announcing that this Sept
ember, I will be taking up the 
post of Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher at Hogwarts School 

of Witchcraft and Wizardry! The crowd cheered and clapped and Harry found himself being  
 AT  FLOURISH  AND  BLOTTS  61  presented with the entire works of
 Gilderoy Lockhart. Staggering 
slightly under their weight, he managed to make his way out of the 
limelight to the edge of the room
, where Ginny was standing next 
to her new cauldron. 
You have these, Harry mumbled 
to her, tipping the books into 
the cauldron. Ill buy my own  
Bet you loved that, didnt you, Potter? said a voice Harry had 
no trouble recognizing. He straightened up and found himself 
face-to-face with Draco Malfoy, who was wearing his usual sneer. 
Famous
 Harry Potter, said Malfoy. Cant even go into a 
book-shop without making the front page. Leave him alone, he didnt want 
all that! said Ginny. It was the 
first time she had spoken in front of Harry. She was glaring at Mal-
foy. Potter, youve got yourself a 
girlfriend! drawled Malfoy. Ginny went scarlet as Ron and Hermione fought their way over, both clutching stacks of Lockharts books. 
Oh, its you, said Ron, looking 
at Malfoy as if he were some-
thing unpleasant on the sole of his 
shoe. Bet youre surprised to see Harry here, eh? 
Not as surprised as I am to see you in a shop, Weasley, retorted 
Malfoy. I suppose your parents will go hungry for a month to pay for all those. 
Ron went as red as Ginny. He dropped his books into the caul-dron, too, and started toward Malfoy, but Harry and Hermione grabbed the back of his jacket. Ron! said Mr. Weasley, struggl
ing over with Fred and George. What are you doing? Its too crowded in here, lets go outside. 

 CHAPTER  FOUR  62  Well, well, well  Arthur Weasley. 
It was Mr. Malfoy. He stood with his hand on Dracos shoulder, sneering in just the same way. Lucius, said Mr. Weasley, nodding coldly. 
Busy time at the Ministry, I hear
, said Mr. Malfoy. All those 
raids . . . I hope theyre paying you overtime? 
He reached into Ginnys cauldron
 and extracted, from amid the glossy Lockhart books, a very old, very battered copy of 
A Begin-ners Guide to Transfiguration.
 Obviously not, Mr. Malfoy said. Dear me, whats the use of 
being a disgrace to the name of 
wizard if they dont even pay you 
well for it? 
Mr. Weasley flushed darker th
an either Ron or Ginny. 
We have a very different idea of what disgraces the name of wiz-
ard, Malfoy, he said. 
Clearly, said Mr. Malfoy, his pale eyes straying to Mr. and 
Mrs. Granger, who were watching apprehensively. The company 
you keep, Weasley . . . and I thought your family could sink no 
lower  
There was a thud of metal as Gi
nnys cauldron went flying; Mr. 
Weasley had thrown himself at Mr. Malfoy, knocking him back-
ward into a bookshelf. Dozens of heavy spellbooks came thunder-
ing down on all their heads; ther
e was a yell of, Get him, Dad! 
from Fred or George; Mrs. Weas
ley was shrieking, No, Arthur, 
no!; the crowd stampeded backward, knocking more shelves over; Gentlemen, please  please! crie
d the assistant, and then, louder 
than all  Break it up, there, ge
nts, break it up  
 AT  FLOURISH  AND  BLOTTS  63  Hagrid was wading toward them through the sea of books. In 
an instant he had pulled Mr. Weasley and Mr. Malfoy apart. 
Mr. Weasley had a cut lip and Mr. 
Malfoy had been hit in the eye 
by an 
Encyclopedia of Toadstools.
 He was still ho
lding Ginnys old 
Transfiguration book. He thrust it 
at her, his eyes glittering with 
malice. 
Here, girl  take your book  
its the best your father can 
give you  Pulling himself out of Hagrids grip he beckoned to 
Draco and swept from the shop. Yeh shouldve ignored him, Arthur, said Hagrid, almost lifting 
Mr. Weasley off his feet as he straig
htened his robes. Rotten ter the 
core, the whole family, everyone 
knows that  no Malfoys worth listenin ter  bad blood, thats what it is  come on now  lets 

get outta here. The assistant looked as though 
he wanted to stop them from 
leaving, but he barely came up to Hagrids waist and seemed to 

think better of it. They hurried up
 the street, the Grangers shaking 
with fright and Mrs. Weasle
y beside herself with fury. A fine
 example to set for your children . . . 
brawling
 in pub-
lic . . . what Gilderoy Lockhart 
mustve thought  
He was pleased, said Fred. Didnt you hear him as we were 
leaving? He was asking that bloke from the Daily Prophet
 if hed be 
able to work the fight into his repo
rt  said it was all publicity  
But it was a subdued group that headed back to the fireside in 
the Leaky Cauldron, where Harry, 
the Weasleys, and all their shop-
ping would be traveling back 
to the Burrow using Floo powder. They said good-bye to the Grangers, who were leaving the pub for the Muggle street on the other side; Mr. Weasley started to ask  
 CHAPTER  FOUR  64  them how bus stops worked, but stopped quickly at the look on Mrs. Weasleys face. Harry took off his glasses and put 
them safely in 
his pocket be-
fore helping himself to Floo powder. 
It definitely wasnt his favorite 
way to travel. 
C H A P T E R  F I V E   65  THE WHOMPING 
WILLOW 
  he end of the summer vacation came too quickly for Harrys 
liking. He was looking forward 
to getting back to Hogwarts, but his month at the Burrow had be
en the happiest of his life. It 
was difficult not to feel jealous 
of Ron when he thought of the Dursleys and the sort of welcome 
he could expect next time he 
turned up on Privet Drive. 
On their last evening, Mrs. Weasley conjured up a sumptuous 
dinner that included all of Harrys favorite things, ending with a 
mouthwatering treacle pudding. Fred and George rounded off the 

evening with a display of Filibuster fireworks; they filled the 
kitchen with red and blue stars that bounced from ceiling to wall 
for at least half an hour. Then it
 was time for a last mug of hot 
chocolate and bed. 
It took a long while to get star
ted next morning. They were up 
at dawn, but somehow they still seem
ed to have a great deal to do.  
 T CHAPTER  FIVE  66  Mrs. Weasley dashed about in a bad mood looking for spare socks and quills; people kept colliding on the stairs, half-dressed with bits 
of toast in their hands; and Mr. 
Weasley nearly broke his neck, trip-
ping over a stray chicken as he crossed the yard carrying Ginnys trunk to the car. 
Harry couldnt see how eight people, six large trunks, two owls, 
and a rat were going to fit into one small Ford Anglia. He had reck-
oned, of course, without the special features that Mr. Weasley had 
added. Not a word to Molly, he whispered to Harry as he opened the 
trunk and showed him how it had been magically expanded so that 
the luggage fitted easily. 
When at last they were all in the car, Mrs. Weasley glanced into 
the back seat, where Harry, Ron, 
Fred, George, and Percy were all 
sitting comfortably side by
 side, and said, Muggles do know more 
than we give them credit for, dont they? She and Ginny got into 

the front seat, which had been stretc
hed so that it resembled a park bench. I mean, youd never know it was this roomy from the out-side, would you? 
Mr. Weasley started up the engine
 and they trundled out of the yard, Harry turning back for a last look at the house. He barely had time to wonder when hed see it
 again when they were back  
George had forgotten his box of Filibuster fireworks. Five minutes 

after that, they skidded to a halt in
 the yard so that Fred could run 
in for his broomstick. They had almost reached the highway when 
Ginny shrieked that shed left her 
diary. By the time she had clam-
bered back into the car, they were running very late, and tempers 
were running high. 
 THE  WHOMPING  WILLOW  67  Mr. Weasley glanced at his watch and then at his wife. Molly, dear  No, Arthur  No one would see  this little button here is an Invisibility 
Booster I installed  thatd get us up in the air  then we fly 
above the clouds. Wed be there 
in ten minutes and no one would be any the wiser  I said 
no, Arthur, not in broad daylight  
They reached Kings Cross at a quarter to eleven. Mr. Weasley 
dashed across the road to get trolle
ys for their trunks and they all 
hurried into the station. 
Harry had caught the Hogwarts Express the previous year. The 
tricky part was getting onto pl
atform nine and 
three-quarters, which wasnt visible to the Muggl
e eye. What you had to do was 
walk through the solid 
barrier dividing platfo
rms nine and ten. It 
didnt hurt, but it had to be done carefully so that none of the 

Muggles noticed you vanishing. 
Percy first, said Mrs. Weasley,
 looking nervously at the clock 
overhead, which showed they had only five minutes to disappear 
casually through the barrier. Percy strode briskly forward and vanished. Mr. Weasley went next; Fred and George followed. Ill take Ginny and you two come
 right after us, Mrs. Weasley 
told Harry and Ron, grabbing Ginnys hand and setting off. In the blink of an eye they were gone. Lets go together, weve only got a minute, Ron said to Harry. 
Harry made sure that Hedwigs cage was safely wedged on top of 
his trunk and wheeled his trolley around
 to face the barrier. He felt  
 CHAPTER  FIVE  68  perfectly confident; this wasnt 
nearly as uncomfortable as using 
Floo powder. Both of them bent low over the handles of their trol-
leys and walked purposefully toward the barrier, gathering speed. A 
few feet away from it, th
ey broke into a run and  
CRASH. 

Both trolleys hit the barrier and bounced backward; Rons trunk 
fell off with a loud thump, Harry was knocked off his feet, and 
Hedwigs cage bounced onto the shiny floor, and she rolled away, 

shrieking indignantly; people all around them stared and a guard 
nearby yelled, What in blazes dyou think youre doing? 
Lost control of the trolley, Harry gasped, clutching his ribs as 
he got up. Ron ran to pick up Hedwig, who was causing such a 

scene that there was a lot of mu
ttering about cruelty to animals 
from the surrounding crowd. 
Why cant we get through?
 Harry hissed to Ron. I dunno  

Ron looked wildly around. A dozen curious people were still watching them. Were going to miss the train, 
Ron whispered. I dont under-
stand why the gateway
s sealed itself  Harry looked up at th
e giant clock with a sickening feeling in 
the pit of his stomach. Ten se
conds . . . nine seconds . . . 
He wheeled his trolley forward cautiously until it was right 
against the barrier and pushed wi
th all his might. The metal re-
mained solid. 
Three seconds . . . two seconds . . . one second . . . 

Its gone, said Ron, sounding stunned. The trains left. What 
if Mum and Dad cant 
get back through to 
us? Have you got any Muggle money? 
THE  WHOMPING  WILLOW  69  Harry gave a hollow laugh. The Dursleys havent given me 
pocket money for about six years. 
Ron pressed his ear to the cold barrier. 
Cant hear a thing, he said tens
ely. Whatre we going to do? I 
dont know how long itll take 
Mum and Dad to get back to us. 
They looked around. People were still watching them, mainly 
because of Hedwigs co
ntinuing screeches. 
I think wed better go and wait by the car, said Harry. Were 
attracting too much atten  Harry! said Ron, his eyes gleaming. The car! 
What about it? 

We can fly the car to Hogwarts! 
But I thought  
Were stuck, right? And weve got to get to school, havent we? 
And even underage wizards are allo
wed to use magic if its a real 
emergency, section nineteen or so
mething of the Restriction of 
Thingy  But your mum and dad . . . said Harry, pushing against the barrier again in the vain hope that it would give way. How will 
they get home? They dont need the car! said
 Ron impatiently. They know 
how to Apparate! You know, just 
vanish and reappear at home! They only bother with Floo powd
er and the car because were all 
underage and were not allowed to Apparate yet. . . . 
Harrys feeling of panic turn
ed suddenly to excitement. 
Can you fly it? 

No problem, said Ron, wheeling 
his trolley around to face the exit. Cmon, lets go. If we hurry
 well be able to follow the Hog-
warts Express  CHAPTER  FIVE  70  And they marched off through the crowd of curious Muggles, out of the station and back onto the side road where the old Ford 
Anglia was parked. Ron unlocked the cavernous trunk wi
th a series of taps from his 
wand. They heaved their luggage ba
ck in, put Hedwig on the back 
seat, and got into the front. 
Check that no ones watching, said Ron, st
arting the ignition 
with another tap of his wand. Harr
y stuck his head out of the win-
dow: Traffic was rumbling along the main road ahead, but their 
street was empty. 
Okay, he said. 
Ron pressed a tiny silver button on the dashboard. The car 
around them vanished  and so did they. Harry could feel the seat vibrating beneath him, hear the en
gine, feel his hands on his knees 
and his glasses on his nose, but for 
all he could see, he had become 
a pair of eyeballs, floating a few 
feet above the ground in a dingy 

street full of parked cars. 
Lets go, said Rons 
voice from his right. 
And the ground and the dirty buildings on either side fell away, 
dropping out of sight as the car rose; in seconds, the whole of Lon-don lay, smoky and glittering, below them. 
Then there was a popping noise and the car, Harry, and Ron reappeared. 
Uh-oh, said Ron, jabbing at 
the Invisibility Booster. Its 
faulty  
Both of them pummeled it. The 
car vanished. Then it flickered back again. Hold on! Ron yelled, and he slammed his foot on the acceler- 
 THE  WHOMPING  WILLOW  71  ator; they shot straight into the 
low, woolly clouds and everything turned dull and foggy. 
Now what? said Harry, blinki
ng at the solid mass of cloud pressing in on them from all sides. 
We need to see the train to know 
what direction to go in, said Ron. Dip back down again  quickly  They dropped back beneath the clouds and twisted around in 
their seats, squint
ing at the ground. I can see it! Harry yelled. Right ahead  there! 
The Hogwarts Express was streak
ing along below them like a 
scarlet snake. Due north, said Ron, checking
 the compass on the dashboard. Okay, well just have to check on it every half hour or so  hold 
on  And they shot up through the clouds. A minute later, they burst 
out into a blaze of sunlight. 
It was a different world. The wh
eels of the car skimmed the sea 
of fluffy cloud, the sky a bright, endless blue under the blinding 
white sun. 
All weve got to worry about now are airplanes, said Ron. 
They looked at each other and started to laugh; for a long time, 
they couldnt stop. 
It was as though they had been plunged into a fabulous dream. 
This, thought Harry, was surely the only way to travel  past 
swirls and turrets of sn
owy cloud, in a car full of hot, bright sun-
light, with a fat pack of toffees 
in the glove compartment, and the 
prospect of seeing Freds and Georges jealous faces when they  
 CHAPTER  FIVE  72  landed smoothly and spectacularly on the sweeping lawn in front 
of Hogwarts castle. 
They made regular chec
ks on the train as they flew farther and 
farther north, each dip beneath 
the clouds showing them a dif-ferent view. London was soon far 
behind them, replaced by neat 
green fields that gave way in turn
 to wide, purplish moors, a great 
city alive with cars like multicolored ants, villages with tiny toy 
churches. 
Several uneventful hours later, ho
wever, Harry had to admit that 
some of the fun was wearing off. The toffees had made them ex-
tremely thirsty and they had nothing to drink. He and Ron had 

pulled off their sweaters, but Har
rys T-shirt was sticking to the back of his seat and his glasses ke
pt sliding down to the end of his sweaty nose. He had stopped noticing the fantastic cloud shapes 
now and was thinking longingly of
 the train miles below, where you could buy ice-cold pumpkin juice from a trolley pushed by a plump witch. Why hadnt they been able to get onto platform nine 
and three-quarters? Cant be much further, can it? croaked Ron, hours later still, as 
the sun started to sink into their fl
oor of cloud, staining it a deep pink. Ready for another check on the train? 
It was still right below them, winding its way past a snowcapped 
mountain. It was much darker 
beneath the canopy of clouds. Ron put his foot on the accelerator and drove them upward 
again, but as he did so, th
e engine began to whine. 
Harry and Ron exchange
d nervous glances. Its probably just tired, said Ro
n. Its never been this far be-
fore. . . . 
 THE  WHOMPING  WILLOW  73  And they both pretended not to notice the whining growing 
louder and louder as the sky beca
me steadily darker. Stars were blossoming in the blackness. Harry pulled his
 sweater back on, try-ing to ignore the way the windshie
ld wipers were now waving fee-
bly, as though in protest. 
Not far, said Ron, more to the car than to Harry, not far 
now, and he patted th
e dashboard nervously. When they flew back beneath the clouds a little while later, they 
had to squint through the darkne
ss for a landmark they knew. 
There! Harry shouted, making Ron and Hedwig jump. Straight ahead! 
Silhouetted on the dark horizon, 
high on the cliff over the lake, 
stood the many turrets and towers of Hogwarts castle. But the car had begun to sh
udder and was losing speed. 
Come on, Ron said cajolingly, 
giving the steering wheel a lit-tle shake, nearly there, come on  
The engine groaned. Narrow jets of steam were issuing from un-
der the hood. Harry found himself gripping the edges of his seat very hard as they flew toward the lake. The car gave a nasty wobble. Glancing out of his window, Harry 
saw the smooth, black, glassy surface of the water,
 a mile below. 
Rons knuckles were white on th
e steering wheel. The car wobbled 
again. Come 
on,
 Ron muttered. They were over the lake  th
e castle was right ahead  Ron 
put his foot down. There was a loud clunk, a splu
tter, and the engine died com-
pletely.  CHAPTER  FIVE  74  Uh-oh, said Ron, into the silence. 
The nose of the car dropped. They
 were falling, gathering speed, heading straight for th
e solid castle wall. 
Noooooo! Ron yelled, swinging the steering wheel around; they 
missed the dark stone wall by inches 
as the car turned in a great arc, 
soaring over the dark greenhouses
, then the vegetable patch, and then out over the black lawns, losing altitude all the time. 
Ron let go of the steering wheel completely and pulled his wand 
out of his back pocket  
STOP! STOP! he yelled, whacking the dashboard and the windshield, but they were still pl
ummeting, the ground flying up 
toward them  
WATCH OUT FOR THAT TREE! Harry bellowed, lunging 
for the steering wheel, but too late  
CRUNCH. 

With an earsplitting bang of metal on wood, they hit the thick 
tree trunk and dropped to the grou
nd with a heavy jolt. Steam was 
billowing from under the crumpled hood; Hedwig was shrieking in 
terror; a golf-ball-sized lump was throbbing on Harrys head where 
he had hit the windshield; and to his right, Ron let out a low, de-
spairing groan. 
Are you okay? Ha
rry said urgently. 
My wand, said Ron, in a shaky voice. Look at my wand  
It had snapped, almost in two; the tip was dangling limply, held 
on by a few splinters. 
Harry opened his mouth to say he was sure theyd be able to 
mend it up at the school, but he ne
ver even got started. At that very 
moment, something hit his side of
 the car with the force of a  
 THE  WHOMPING  WILLOW  75  charging bull, sending him lurching 
sideways into Ron, just as an 
equally heavy blow hit the roof. 
Whats happen  ? 
Ron gasped, staring through the 
windshield, and Harry looked around just in time to see a branch
 as thick as a python smash into 
it. The tree they had hit was atta
cking them. Its trunk was bent al-
most double, and its gnarled boughs were pummeling every inch of the car it could reach. 
Aaargh! said Ron as another twisted limb punched a large dent 
into his door; the windshield wa
s now trembling under a hail of 
blows from knuckle-like twigs and a 
branch as thick as a battering 
ram was pounding furiously on th
e roof, which seemed to be cav-
ing  
Run for it! Ron shouted, throwi
ng his full weight against his 
door, but next second he had been knocked backward into Harrys 
lap by a vicious uppercut from another branch. 
Were done for! he moaned as the ceiling sagged, but suddenly 
the floor of the car was vibrating  the engine had restarted. 
Reverse! Harry yelled, and the car shot backward; the tree was still trying to hit them
; they could hear its roots creaking as it al-most ripped itself up, lashing out at
 them as they sp
ed out of reach. 
That, panted Ron, was close. Well done, car  
The car, however, had reached the end of its tether. With two 
sharp clunks, the doors flew open and Harry felt his seat tip side-ways: Next thing he knew he was sprawled on the damp ground. 
Loud thuds told him that the car was ejecting their luggage from 
the trunk; Hedwigs cage flew through the air and burst open; she 
rose out of it with an angry screech and sped off toward the castle  
 CHAPTER  FIVE  76  without a backward l
ook. Then, dented, scratched, and steaming, 
the car rumbled off into 
the darkness, its rear li
ghts blazing angrily. Come back! Ron yelled after it
, brandishing his broken wand. 
Dadll kill me! 
But the car disappeared from view with one last snort from its 
exhaust. 
Can you 
believe our luck? said Ron miserably, bending down 
to pick up Scabbers. Of all the trees we couldve hit, we had to get 
one that hits back. 
He glanced over his shoulder at the ancient tree, which was still 
flailing its branches threateningly. 
Come on, said Harry wearily, wed better get up to the 
school. . . . 
It wasnt at all the triumphant arrival they had pictured. Stiff, 
cold, and bruised, they seized the ends of their trunks and began 

dragging them up the grassy slope, toward the great oak front doors. I think the feasts already starte
d, said Ron, dropping his trunk at the foot of the front steps and crossing quietly to look through a 
brightly lit window. Hey  Harry  come and look  its the Sorting! Harry hurried over and, together, he and Ron peered in at the 
Great Hall. 
Innumerable candles were hovering
 in midair over four long, 
crowded tables, making the golden plates and goblets sparkle. 
Overhead, the bewitched ceiling,
 which always mirrored the sky 
outside, sparkled with stars. Through the forest of pointed black Hogwarts hats, Harry saw a 
long line of scared-looking first 
years filing into the Hall. Ginny 
THE  WHOMPING  WILLOW  77  was among them, easily visible be
cause of her vivid Weasley hair. 
Meanwhile, Professor McGonagall, 
a bespectacled witch with her hair in a tight bun, was placing 
the famous Hogwarts Sorting Hat 
on a stool before the newcomers. 
Every year, this aged old hat, patched, frayed, and dirty, sorted 
new students into the four Hogwarts houses (Gryffindor, Huf-
flepuff, Ravenclaw, and Slytheri
n). Harry well remembered putting 
it on, exactly one year ago, and waiting, petrified, for its decision as 
it muttered aloud in his ear. Fo
r a few horrible seconds he had 
feared that the hat was going to 
put him in Slytherin, the House 
that had turned out more Dark witches and wizards than any 
other  but he had ended up in
 Gryffindor, along with Ron, Hermione, and the rest of the Weasleys. Last term, Harry and Ron had helped Gryffindor win th
e House Championship, beating 
Slytherin for the first 
time in seven years. 
A very small, mousy-haired boy had been called forward to place 
the hat on his head. Harrys eyes wandered past him to where Pro-fessor Dumbledore, the headmaster, sat watching the Sorting from 
the staff table, his long silver beard and half-moon glasses shining brightly in the candlelight. Severa
l seats along, Harry saw Gilderoy 
Lockhart, dressed in robes of aquamarine. And there at the end was 
Hagrid, huge and hairy, drinking deeply from his goblet. 
Hang on . . . Harry muttered to Ron. Theres an empty chair 
at the staff table. 
. . . Wheres Snape? Professor Severus Snape was Harrys least favorite teacher. Harry 
also happened to be Snapes least fa
vorite student. Cruel, sarcastic, 
and disliked by everybody except the students from his own House 
(Slytherin), Snape 
taught Potions. Maybe hes ill! said Ron hopefully. 
CHAPTER  FIVE  78  Maybe hes 
left, said Harry, because he missed out on the De-fense Against the Dark Arts job 
again
! Or he might have been 
sacked! said Ron enthusiastically. I 
mean, everyone hates him  
Or maybe, said a very cold voice right behind them, hes 
waiting to hear why you two didnt arrive on the school train. 
Harry spun around. There, his bl
ack robes rippling in a cold 
breeze, stood Severus Snape. He was a thin man with sallow skin, a 
hooked nose, and greasy, shoulder-length black hair, and at this 
moment, he was smiling in a way th
at told Harry he and Ron were 
in very deep trouble. 
Follow me, said Snape. 
Not daring even to look at each other, Harry and Ron followed 
Snape up the steps into
 the vast, echoing entrance hall, which was 
lit with flaming torches. A delicious smell of food was wafting from the Great Hall, but Snape led them away from the warmth and 
light, down a narrow stone stairc
ase that led into the dungeons. 
In! he said, opening a door halfway down the cold passageway and pointing. 
They entered Snapes office, shivering. The shadowy walls were 
lined with shelves of large glass ja
rs, in which floated all manner of 
revolting things Harry di
dnt really want to know the name of at 
the moment. The fireplace was dark and empty. Snape closed the door and turned to look at them. So, he said softly, the train isnt good enough for the famous 
Harry Potter and his faithful sidekick, Weasley. Wanted to arrive 
with a bang,
 did we, boys? No, sir, it was the barrie
r at Kings Cross, it  
 THE  WHOMPING  WILLOW  79  Silence! said Snape coldly. What have you done with the 
car? 
Ron gulped. This wasnt the firs
t time Snape had given Harry the impression of being able to read minds. But a moment later, he un-
derstood, as Snape unrolled todays issue of the 
Evening Prophet. You were seen, he hissed
, showing them the headline: FLY-ING FORD ANGLIA MYSTIFIES MUGGLES. 
He began to read aloud: Two Muggles in London, convinced they saw an old car 
flying over the Post Office tower 
. . . at noon in Norfolk, Mrs. 
Hetty Bayliss, while hanging out 
her washing . . . Mr. Angus Fleet, of Peebles, reported to police . . . Six or seven Muggles in all. I be-lieve 
your 
father works in the Misuse 
of Muggle Artifacts Office? 
he said, looking up at Ron and sm
iling still more nastily. Dear, 
dear . . . his own son . . . Harry felt as though hed just been walloped in the stomach by one of the mad trees larger branches. If anyone found out Mr. 
Weasley had bewitched the car . . . he hadnt thought of that. . . . 
I noticed, in my search of th
e park, that cons
iderable damage 
seems to have been done to a very valuable Whomping Willow, 
Snape went on. That tree did more damage to 
us than we  Ron blurted out. Silence! snapped Snape again. Most unfortunately, you are 
not in my House and the decision 
to expel you does not rest with 
me. I shall go and fetch the people who do have that happy power. 
You will wait here. 
Harry and Ron stared at
 each other, white-
faced. Harry didnt 
feel hungry anymore. He now felt 
extremely sick. He tried not to 
look at a large, slimy something 
suspended in green liquid on a  
 CHAPTER  FIVE  80  shelf behind Snapes desk. If Snape had gone
 to fetch Professor 
McGonagall, head of Gryffindor House, they were hardly any bet-
ter off. She might be fairer than 
Snape, but she was still extremely 
strict. Ten minutes later, Snape returned, and sure enough it was Pro-
fessor McGonagall who accompanie
d him. Harry had seen Profes-
sor McGonagall angry on several occasions, but either he had forgotten just how thin her mouth 
could go, or he had never seen 
her this angry before. She raised her wand the moment she entered; 
Harry and Ron both flinched, but 
she merely pointed it at the empty fireplace, where fl
ames suddenly erupted. 
Sit, she said, and they both ba
cked into chairs by the fire. 
Explain, she said, her gl
asses glinting ominously. 
Ron launched into the story, star
ting with the barrier at the sta-
tion refusing to let them through. 
 so we had no choice, Professor, we couldn
t get on the train. 
Why didnt you send us a letter by owl? I believe 
you have an 
owl? Professor McGonagall 
said coldly to Harry. 
Harry gaped at her. Now shed said it, that seemed the obvious thing to have done. 
I  I didnt think  
That, said Professor McGonagall, is obvious. 
There was a knock on the office door and Snape, now looking 
happier than ever, opened it. There stood the headmaster, Professor 
Dumbledore. Harrys whole body went numb
. Dumbledore was looking un-usually grave. He stared down his very crooked nose at them, and  
 THE  WHOMPING  WILLOW  81  Harry suddenly found himself wishin
g he and Ron were still being beaten up by the Whomping Willow. There was a long silence. Then
 Dumbledore said, Please ex-
plain why you did this. 
It would have been better if he had shouted. Harry hated the dis-
appointment in his voice. For some
 reason, he was unable to look 
Dumbledore in the eyes, and spoke instead to his knees. He told 
Dumbledore everything except th
at Mr. Weasley owned the be-
witched car, making it sound as
 though he and Ron had happened 
to find a flying car 
parked outside the station. He knew Dumble-
dore would see through this at once, but Dumbledore asked no questions about the car. When Harry had finished, he merely con-tinued to peer at them
 through his spectacles. 
Well go and get our stuff, said Ron in a hopeless sort of voice. 
What are you talking about, We
asley? barked Professor Mc-
Gonagall. Well, youre expelling us
, arent you? said Ron. 
Harry looked quickly at Dumbledore. 
Not today, Mr. Weasley, said Dumbledore. But I must im-press upon both of you the seriousness of wh
at you have done. I will be writing to both your famili
es tonight. I must also warn you 
that if you do anything like this ag
ain, I will have no choice but to 
expel you. 
Snape looked as though Chri
stmas had been canceled. He 
cleared his throat and said, Professor Dumbledore, these boys 
have flouted the Decree for the Re
striction of Underage Wizardry, 
caused serious damage to an old an
d valuable tree  surely acts of 
this nature   CHAPTER  FIVE  82  It will be for Professor McGona
gall to decide on these boys 
punishments, Severus, said Dumbledore calmly. They are in her 
House and are therefore her responsi
bility. He turned to Professor 
McGonagall. I must go back to the feast, Minerva, I
ve got to give 
out a few notices. Come
, Severus, theres a 
delicious-looking cus-tard tart I want to sample  
Snape shot a look of pure venom at Harry and Ron as he allowed 
himself to be swept ou
t of his office, leaving them alone with Pro-
fessor McGonagall, who was still eyei
ng them like a wrathful eagle. 
Youd better get along to the hospital wing, Weasley, youre 
bleeding. Not much, said Ron, hastily wiping the cut over his eye with 
his sleeve. Professor, I wanted to 
watch my sister being Sorted  The Sorting Ceremony is over
, said Professor McGonagall. 
Your sister is also in Gryffindor. 
Oh, good, said Ron. 
And speaking of Gryffindor  Professor McGonagall said 
sharply, but Harry cut in: Professor, when we took the car, term 
hadnt started, so  so Gryffind
or shouldnt really have points 
taken from it  should it? he fi
nished, watching her anxiously. 
Professor McGonagall gave him a piercing look, but he was sure she had almost smiled. Her mout
h looked less thin, anyway. 
I will not take any points fr
om Gryffindor, she said, and 
Harrys heart lightened considerably. But you will both get a de-

tention. 
It was better than Harry had expected. As for Dumbledores writing to the Dursleys
, that was nothing. 
Harry knew perfectly well theyd just be disappointed th
at the Whomping Willow hadnt 
squashed him flat. THE  WHOMPING  WILLOW  83  Professor McGonagall raised her 
wand again and pointed it at Snapes desk. A large plate of sand
wiches, two silver goblets, and a 
jug of iced pumpkin juic
e appeared with a pop. 
You will eat in here and then go straight up to your dormitory, 
she said. I must also return to the feast. 
When the door had closed behind her, Ron let out a long, low whistle. I thought wed had it, he said, grabbing a sandwich. 
So did I, said Harry, taking one, too. Can you believe our luck, though? said Ron thickly through a 
mouthful of chicken and ham. 
Fred and George mustve flown 
that car five or six times and no Muggle ever saw 
them. He swal-lowed and took another huge bite. 
Why couldnt we get through 
the barrier? 
Harry shrugged. Well have to watch our step from now on, 
though, he said, taking a grateful swig of pumpkin juice. Wish 
we couldve gone up 
to the feast. . . . 
She didnt want us showing off,
 said Ron sagely. Doesnt want 
people to think its clever, arriving by flying car. 
When they had eaten as many sa
ndwiches as they could (the 
plate kept refilling itself), they ro
se and left the office, treading the 
familiar path to Gryffindor Tower.
 The castle was quiet; it seemed 
that the feast was over. They walked past muttering portraits and 

creaking suits of armor, and clim
bed narrow flights of stone stairs, 
until at last they reached the passage where the secret entrance to 
Gryffindor Tower was hidden, behind an oil painting of a very fat woman in a pink silk dress. 
Password? she said as they approached. 
Er  said Harry. CHAPTER  FIVE  84  They didnt know the new year
s password, not having met a Gryffindor prefect yet, but help 
came almost immediately; they 
heard hurrying feet behind them and turned to see Hermione 
dashing toward them. 
There you are! Where have you 
been? The most 
ridiculous
 ru-mors  someone said youd been expelled for crashing a flying 

car  Well, we havent been expelled, Harry assured her. 

Youre not telling me you did fly here? said Hermione, sound-ing almost as severe as
 Professor McGonagall. 
Skip the lecture, said Ron impatiently, and tell us the new 
password. 
Its wattlebird, said Hermione
 impatiently, b
ut thats not 
the point  Her words were cut short, however, as the portrait of the fat lady 
swung open and there was a sudden 
storm of clapping. It looked 
as though the whole of Gryffindor
 House was still awake, packed into the circular common room, st
anding on the lopsided tables 
and squashy armchairs, waiting for them to arrive. Arms reached 
through the portrait hole to pull Harry and Ron inside, leaving Hermione to scramble in after them. 
Brilliant! yelled Lee Jordan. I
nspired! What an entrance! Fly-ing a car right into the Whomping Willow, peoplell be talking 
about that one for years  Good for you, said a fifth year Harry had never spoken to; 
someone was patting him on the ba
ck as though hed just won a 
marathon; Fred and George pushed their way to the front of the 

crowd and said together, Why couldnt weve come in the car, eh?  
 THE  WHOMPING  WILLOW  85  Ron was scarlet in the face, grinning embarrassedly, but Harry 
could see one person who didnt look
 happy at all. Percy was visible 
over the heads of some excited firs
t years, and he seemed to be try-
ing to get near enough to start telling them off. Harry nudged Ron in the ribs and nodded in Percys direction. Ron got the point at once. Got to get upstairs  bit tired,
 he said, and the two of them started pushing their way toward the door on the other side of the room, which led to a spiral staircase and the dormitories. Night, Harry called back to
 Hermione, who was wearing a scowl just like Percys. 
They managed to get to the ot
her side of the common room, 
still having their back
s slapped, and gained 
the peace of the stair-
case. They hurried up it, right to 
the top, and at last reached the 
door of their old dormitory, which now had a sign on it saying second years. They entered the familiar
, circular room, with its 
five four-posters hung with re
d velvet and its high, narrow win-dows. Their trunks had been brought up for them and stood at the 
ends of their beds. 
Ron grinned guiltily at Harry. 
I know I shouldntve enjoye
d that or anything, but  The dormitory door flew open and in came the other second 
year Gryffindor boys, Seamus Finnigan, Dean Thomas, and 
Neville Longbottom. Unbelievable! beamed Seamus. 
Cool, said Dean. 

Amazing, said Ne
ville, awestruck. 
Harry couldnt help it
. He grinned, too. C H A P T E R  S I X   86  GILDEROY LOCKHART  
   he next day, however, Harry 
barely grinned once. Things 
started to go downhill from breakfast in the Great Hall. The 
four long House tables were laden 
with tureens of porridge, plates 
of kippers, mountains of toast, and dishes of eggs and bacon, be-neath the enchanted ceiling (today
, a dull, cloudy gray). Harry and 
Ron sat down at the Gryffindor table next to Hermione, who had 
her copy of 
Voyages with Vampires
 propped open agai
nst a milk jug. 
There was a slight stiffness in th
e way she said 
Morning, which 
told Harry that she was still disa
pproving of the way they had ar-
rived. Neville Longbottom, on th
e other hand, gree
ted them cheer-fully. Neville was a round-faced 
and accident-prone boy with the 
worst memory of anyone 
Harry had ever met. 
Mails due any minute  I think 
Grans sending a few things I 
forgot. 
Harry had only just started hi
s porridge when, sure enough, 
there was a rushing sound overhe
ad and a hundred or so owls T GILDEROY LOCKHART  87  streamed in, circling the hall an
d dropping letters and packages into the chattering crowd. A big, lumpy package bounced off 
Nevilles head and, a second later,
 something large and gray fell into 
Hermiones jug, spraying them
 all with milk and feathers. Errol! said Ron, pulling the bedrag
gled owl out by the feet. Er-rol slumped, unconscious, onto the table, his legs in the air and a 
damp red envelope in his beak. Oh, no  Ron gasped. 

Its all right, hes still alive, said Hermione, prodding Errol gently with the tip of her finger. 
Its not that  its 
that.
 Ron was pointing at the red envelope. It looked quite ordinary 
to Harry, but Ron and 
Neville were both looking at it as though 
they expected it to explode. 
Whats the matter? said Harry. 

Shes  shes sent me a Howler, said Ron faintly. 

Youd better open it, Ron, said Neville in a timid whisper. Itll 
be worse if you dont. My gran sent me one once, and I ignored it 
and  he gulped  it was horrible. 
Harry looked from their petrif
ied faces to the red envelope. 
Whats a Howler? he said. 
But Rons whole attention was fixe
d on the letter, which had be-
gun to smoke at the corners. 
Open it, Neville urged. Itll all be over in a few minutes  
Ron stretched out a shaking hand
, eased the envelope from Er-
rols beak, and slit it open. Nevill
e stuffed his fingers in his ears. A 
split second later, Harry knew why. He thought for a moment it 
had exploded; a roar of 
sound filled the huge hall, shaking dust 
from the ceiling. 
CHAPTER  SIX  88   STEALING THE CAR, I WO
ULDNT HAVE BEEN SUR-PRISED IF THEYD EXPELLED YOU, YOU WAIT TILL I 
GET HOLD OF YOU, I DO
NT SUPPOSE YOU STOPPED TO THINK WHAT YOUR FATH
ER AND I WENT THROUGH WHEN WE SAW IT WAS GONE 
 Mrs. Weasleys yells, a hundred 
times louder than usual, made 
the plates and spoons rattle on the table, and echoed deafeningly 
off the stone walls. People thro
ughout the hall were swiveling 
around to see who had received the Howler, and Ron sank so low 
in his chair that only his cr
imson forehead could be seen. 
 LETTER FROM DUMBLEDORE LAST NIGHT, I 
THOUGHT YOUR FATHER WOULD DIE OF SHAME, WE 
DIDNT BRING YOU UP TO BEHAVE LIKE THIS, YOU 

AND HARRY COULD BOTH HAVE DIED 
 Harry had been wondering when 
his name was going to crop 
up. He tried very hard to look as 
though he couldnt
 hear the voice that was making his eardrums throb. 
 ABSOLUTELY DISGUSTED  YOUR FATHERS FAC-
ING AN INQUIRY AT WORK, ITS ENTIRELY YOUR FAULT 
AND IF YOU PUT ANOTHER TOE OUT OF LINE WELL 

BRING YOU STRAIGHT BACK HOME.
 A ringing silence fe
ll. The red envelope, which had dropped 
from Rons hand, burst into flames and curled into ashes. Harry 
and Ron sat stunned, as
 though a tidal wave had just passed over 
them. A few people laughed and, gradually, a babble of talk broke out again. Hermione closed Voyages with Vampires
 and looked down at the top of Rons head. 

 GILDEROY LOCKHART  89  Well, I dont know
 what you expected, Ron, but you  Dont tell me I deserved it, snapped Ron. 
Harry pushed his porridge away. His insides were burning with guilt. Mr. Weasley was facing an 
inquiry at work. After all Mr. and Mrs. Weasley had done for him over the summer . . . 
But he had no time to dwell on
 this; Professor McGonagall was 
moving along the Gryffindor table,
 handing out course schedules. 
Harry took his and saw that they had double Herbology with the Hufflepuffs first. 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione left the castle together, crossed the vegetable patch, and made for th
e greenhouses, where the magical 
plants were kept. At least the Howler had done one good thing: Hermione seemed to think they had now been punished enough and was being perfectly friendly again. 
As they neared the greenhouses th
ey saw the rest of the class 
standing outside, waiting for Professor Sprout. Harry, Ron, and Hermione had only just joined th
em when she came striding into 
view across the lawn, accompanied by Gilderoy Lockhart. Profes-
sor Sprouts arms were full of bandages, and with another twinge of guilt, Harry spotted the Whomping Willow in the distance, several 
of its branches now in slings. 
Professor Sprout was a squat little witch who wore a patched hat 
over her flyaway hair; there was usually a large amount of earth on 
her clothes and her fingernails 
would have made Aunt Petunia faint. Gilderoy Lockhart, however, was immaculate in sweeping 
robes of turquoise, his golden hair shining under a perfectly posi-
tioned turquoise hat with gold trimming. 
Oh, hello there! he called, beaming around at the assembled  
 CHAPTER  SIX  90  students. Just been showing Professor Sprout the right way to doc-tor a Whomping Willow! But I dont want you running away with 
the idea that Im better at Herbol
ogy than she is! I just happen to 
have met several of these exotic
 plants on my travels . . . Greenhouse three today, chaps! said Professor Sprout, who was 
looking distinctly disgruntled, not at all her usual cheerful self. 
There was a murmur of interest. 
They had only ever worked in 
greenhouse one before  greenhouse three housed far more in-

teresting and dangerous plants. Professor Sprout took a large key from her belt and unlocked the door. Harry caught a whiff of damp 

earth and fertilizer mingling with 
the heavy perfume of some giant, 
umbrella-sized flowers dangling from the ceiling. He was about to 
follow Ron and Hermione inside when Lockharts hand shot out. 
Harry! Ive been wanting a word  you dont mind if hes a 
couple of minutes late, do you, Professor Sprout? 
Judging by Professor Sprouts scowl, she did mind, but Lockhart said, Thats the ticket, and closed the gree
nhouse door in her face. Harry, said Lockhart, his larg
e white teeth gleaming in the sunlight as he shook his he
ad. Harry, Harry, Harry. 
Completely nonplussed, Harry said nothing. 
When I heard  well, of course, it was all my fault. Could 
have kicked myself. Harry had no idea what he was 
talking about. He was about to 
say so when Lockhart went on, Dont know when Ive been more 
shocked. Flying a car to Hogwarts! Well, of course, I knew at once why youd done it. Stood out a mile. Harry, Harry, Harry. It was remarkable how he could show every one of those brilliant teeth even when he wasnt talking. 
GILDEROY LOCKHART  91  Gave you a taste for publicity, 
didnt I? said Lockhart. Gave 
you the bug.
 You got onto the front page of the paper with me and 
you couldnt wait to do it again. 
Oh, no, Professor, see  
Harry, Harry, Harry, said Lockha
rt, reaching out and grasping his shoulder. 
I understand. Natural to want a bit more once youve 
had that first taste  and I blame myself for 
giving you that, be-
cause it was bound to go to your head  but see here, young man, 
you cant start 
flying cars
 to try and get yourself noticed. Just calm 
down, all right? Plenty of time for 
all that when youre older. Yes, 
yes, I know what youre thinking! Its all right for him, hes an in-ternationally famous wizard alread
y! But when I was twelve, I was 
just as much of a nobody as you ar
e now. In fact, I
d say I was even more of a nobody! I mean, a few people have heard of you, havent 
they? All that business with He
-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named! He glanced at the lightning scar on Harrys forehead. I know, I 
know  its not quite as good as winning 
Witch Weeklys
 Most-Charming-Smile Award five times in
 a row, as I have  but its a 
start,
 Harry, its a 
start.
 He gave Harry a hearty wink 
and strode off. Harry stood 
stunned for a few seconds, then, 
remembering he was supposed to 
be in the greenhouse, he opened the door and slid inside. Professor Sprout was standing be
hind a trestle bench in the cen-ter of the greenhouse. About twenty pairs of different-colored ear-

muffs were lying on the bench. 
When Harry had taken his place 
between Ron and Hermione, she sa
id, Well be repotting Man-
drakes today. Now, who can tell me the properties of the Man-drake? To nobodys surprise, 
Hermiones hand was 
first into the air. 
CHAPTER  SIX  92  Mandrake, or Mandragora, is a powerful restorative, said Her-
mione, sounding as usual as though she had swal
lowed the text-
book. It is used to return people who have been transfigured or 
cursed to their original state. 
Excellent. Ten points to Gryffindor, said Professor Sprout. 
The Mandrake forms an essential pa
rt of most antidotes. It is also, however, dangerous. Who can tell me why? 
Hermiones hand narrowly missed Harrys glasses as it shot up again. The cry of the Mandrake is fatal to anyone who hears it, she 
said promptly. 
Precisely. Take another ten po
ints, said Professor Sprout. 
Now, the Mandrakes we have 
here are still very young. 
She pointed to a row of deep trays as she spoke, and everyone 
shuffled forward for a better lo
ok. A hundred or so tufty little plants, purplish green in color, were growing there in rows. They 

looked quite unremarkable to Har
ry, who didnt ha
ve the slightest 
idea what Hermione meant by
 the cry of the Mandrake. 
Everyone take a pair of earm
uffs, said Professor Sprout. 
There was a scramble as everyone tr
ied to seize a pair that wasnt 
pink and fluffy. 
When I tell you to put them on, make sure your ears are 
com-pletely covered, said Professor Sprout. When it is safe to remove 
them, I will give you the thumbs-up. Right  earmuffs 
on.
 Harry snapped the earmuffs over his ears. They shut out sound completely. Professor Sprout put the pink, fluffy pair over her own 

ears, rolled up the sleeves of her robes, grasped one of the tufty 

plants firmly, and pulled hard.  GILDEROY LOCKHART  93  Harry let out a gasp of surpri
se that no one could hear. Instead of roots, a small, muddy, and extremely ugly baby 
popped out of the earth. The leav
es were growing 
right out of his 
head. He had pale green, mottled 
skin, and was clearly bawling at 
the top of his lungs. 
Professor Sprout took a large plant pot from under the table and 
plunged the Mandrake into it, burying him in dark, damp com-post until only the tufted leaves were visible. Professor Sprout 
dusted off her hands, gave them
 all the thumbs-up, and removed 
her own earmuffs. 
As our Mandrakes are only seedlings, their cries wont kill yet, 
she said calmly as though shed just done nothing more exciting 
than water a begonia. However, they will knock you out for sev-eral hours, and as Im sure none of
 you want to miss your first day 
back, make sure your earmuffs 
are securely in place while you 
work. I will attract your attention when it is time to pack up. 
Four to a tray  there is a large supply of pots here  com-
post in the sacks over there  and be careful of the Venomous 
Tentacula, its teething. 
She gave a sharp slap to a spiky, dark red plant as she spoke, 
making it draw in the long feelers that had been inching sneakily 
over her shoulder. Harry, Ron, and Hermione were 
joined at their tray by a curly-haired Hufflepuff boy Harry
 knew by sight but had never 
spoken to. 
Justin Finch-Fletchley, he said brightly, shaking Harry by the 
hand. Know who you are, of course, the famous Harry Potter. . . . And youre Hermione Granger  always top in everything  
 CHAPTER  SIX  94  (Hermione beamed as she had 
her hand shaken too)  and 
Ron Weasley. Wasnt that your flying car? 
Ron didnt smile. The Howler wa
s obviously still on his mind. That Lockharts something, isnt he
? said Justin happily as they 
began filling their plant pots with dragon dung compost. Awfully 
brave chap. Have you read
 his books? Id have died of fear if Id 
been cornered in a telephone booth by a werewolf, but he stayed 
cool and  zap  just 
fantastic.
 My name was down for Eton, you know. I cant tell you how 
glad I am I came here instead. Of course, Mother was slightly dis-
appointed, but since I made her re
ad Lockharts books I think shes begun to see how useful itll be to 
have a fully trained wizard in the 
family. . . . After that they didnt have much
 chance to talk. Their earmuffs 
were back on and they needed to concentrate on the Mandrakes. 
Professor Sprout had made it look extremely ea
sy, but it wasnt. The 
Mandrakes didnt like coming out of
 the earth, but didnt seem to 
want to go back into it either. They squirmed, kicked, flailed their 
sharp little fists, and gnashed their teeth; Harry spent ten whole 
minutes trying to squash a particularly fat one into a pot. 
By the end of the class, Harry, 
like everyone else, was sweaty, 
aching, and covered in earth. Everyo
ne traipsed back to the castle 
for a quick wash and then the Gry
ffindors hurried off to Transfig-uration. Professor McGonagalls classes we
re always hard work, but today 
was especially difficult. Everything Harry had learned last year 

seemed to have leaked out of his
 head during the summer. He was 
supposed to be turning a beetle into a button, but all he managed  
 GILDEROY LOCKHART  95  to do was give his beetle a lot of exer
cise as it scuttled over the desk-
top avoiding his wand. 
Ron was having far worse prob
lems. He had pa
tched up his wand with some borrowed Spellotape
, but it seemed to be damaged 
beyond repair. It kept crackling and sparking at odd moments, and every time Ron tried to transfigure his beetle it engulfed him in 
thick gray smoke that smelled of 
rotten eggs. Unable to see what he was doing, Ron accidentally squashed his beetle with his el-bow and had to ask for a new one. Professor McGonagall wasnt 
pleased. Harry was relieved to hear the lu
nch bell. His brain felt like a wrung sponge. Everyone filed out of the classroom except him and Ron, who was whacking his wand furiously on the desk. 
Stupid  useless  thing  

Write home for another one, Harry suggested as the wand let off a volley of bangs 
like a firecracker. Oh, yeah, and get another Howler 
back, said Ron, stuffing the now hissing wand into his bag. 
Its your own fault your wand got 
snapped
  
They went down to lunch, wher
e Rons mood was not improved 
by Hermiones showing them the handful of perfec
t coat buttons 
she had produced in Transfiguration. 
Whatve we got this afternoon?
 said Harry, hastily changing the subject. Defense Against the Dark Arts
, said Hermione at once. 
Why, demanded Ron, seizing her schedule, have you outlined 
all Lockharts lessons
 in little hearts? 
Hermione snatched the schedule back, blushing furiously. 
 CHAPTER  SIX  96  They finished lunch and went ou
tside into the overcast court-
yard. Hermione sat down on a stone step and buried her nose in Voyages with Vampires again. Harry and Ron stood talking about Quidditch for several minutes befo
re Harry became aware that he 
was being closely watched. Looking up, he saw the very small, 
mousy-haired boy hed seen trying
 on the Sorting Hat last night 
staring at Harry as though transfixed. He was clutching what 
looked like an ordinary Muggle camera, and the moment Harry 
looked at him, he went bright red. 
All right, Harry? Im  Im Colin Creevey, he said breath-
lessly, taking a tentative step fo
rward. Im in Gryffindor, too. 
Dyou think  would it be all right if  can I have a picture? he 
said, raising the camera hopefully. 
A picture? Harry repeated blankly. 

So I can prove Ive met you, said Colin Creevey eagerly, edg-
ing further forward. I know all about you. Everyones told me. 
About how you survived when Yo
u-Know-Who tried to kill you 
and how he disappeared and everything and how youve still got a 
lightning scar on your forehead 
(his eyes raked Harrys hairline) and a boy in my dormitory said if I develop the film in the right 
potion, the picturesll 
move. Colin drew a great shuddering breath 
of excitement and said, Its 
amazing here, isnt it? I never knew all 
the odd stuff I could do was magic till I got the letter from Hog-warts. My dads a milkman, he coul
dnt believe it either. So Im tak-
ing loads of pictures to send home
 to him. And itd be really good 
if I had one of you  he looked imploringly at Harry  maybe 
your friend could take it and I co
uld stand next to you? And then, could you sign it? 
 GILDEROY LOCKHART  97  Signed photos? Youre giving out 
signed photos,
 Potter? Loud and scathing, Draco Malfoys voice echoed around the 
courtyard. He had stopped right behind Colin, flanked, as he al-
ways was at Hogwarts, by his large and thuggi
sh cronies, Crabbe and Goyle. 
Everyone line up! Malfoy roared to the crowd. Harry Potters 
giving out signed photos! 
No, Im not, said Harry angrily, his fists clenching. Shut up, 
Malfoy. 
Youre just jealous, piped up Colin, whose entire body was 
about as thick as Crabbes neck. 
Jealous? said Malfoy, who didnt 
need to shout anymore: Half 
the courtyard was listening in. Of what? I dont want a foul scar 
right across my head, thanks. I do
nt think getting your head cut 
open makes you that special, myself. Crabbe and Goyle were 
sniggering stupidly. 
Eat slugs, Malfoy, said Ron angrily. Crabbe st
opped laughing and started rubbing his knuckles in a menacing way. 
Be careful, Weasley, sneered Ma
lfoy. You dont want to start 
any trouble or your mommyll have
 to come and take you away 
from school. He put on a shrill, piercing voice. 
If you put another 
toe out of line
  
A knot of Slytherin fifth years 
nearby laughed lo
udly at this. 
Weasley would like a signed 
photo, Potter, smirked Malfoy. Itd be worth more than hi
s familys whole house  Ron whipped out his Spellotaped wand, but Hermione shut 
Voyages with Vampires with a snap and whispered, Look out! 
Whats all this, whats all this? Gilderoy Lockhart was striding  
 CHAPTER  SIX  98  toward them, his turquoise robes swirling behind him. Whos giv-
ing out signed photos? 
Harry started to speak but he was cut short as Lockhart flung an arm around his shoulders and thun
dered jovially, Shouldnt have 
asked! We meet again, Harry! 
Pinned to Lockharts side and burning with humiliation, Harry 
saw Malfoy slide smirking
 back into the crowd. Come on then, Mr. Creevey, said Lockhart, beaming at Colin. 
A double portrait, cant do better than that, and well 
both sign it 
for you. 
Colin fumbled for his camera an
d took the picture as the bell rang behind them, signaling the start of afternoon classes. 
Off you go, move along there, Lockhart called to the crowd, 
and he set off back to the castle
 with Harry, who was wishing he 
knew a good Vanishing Spell, still clasped to his side. 
A word to the wise, Harry, said
 Lockhart paternally as they entered the building through a side door. I covered up for you 

back there with young Creevey  if he was photographing me, 
too, your schoolmates wont think 
youre setting yourself up so 
much. . . . Deaf to Harrys stammers, Lockhart swept him down a corridor lined with staring students and up a staircase. 
Let me just say that handing out 
signed pictures at this stage of your career isnt sensible  look
s a tad bigheaded, Harry, to be frank. There may well come a time when, like me, youll need to keep a stack handy wherever you go, but  he gave a little chor-tle  I dont think yo
ure quite there yet. 
They had reached Lockharts classroom and he let Harry go at  
 GILDEROY LOCKHART  99  last. Harry yanked his 
robes straight and headed for a seat at the 
very back of the class, where he bu
sied himself with piling all seven 
of Lockharts books in front of him, so that he could avoid looking at the real thing. The rest of the class came clat
tering in, and Ron and Hermione 
sat down on either side of Harry. 
You couldve fried an egg on your face, said Ron. Youd better 
hope Creevey doesnt meet Ginny, 
or theyll be starting a Harry 
Potter fan club. 
Shut up, snapped Harry. The la
st thing he needed was for Lockhart to hear the phrase
 Harry Potter fan club. 
When the whole class was seated, 
Lockhart cleared his throat 
loudly and silence fell. He reac
hed forward, picked up Neville Longbottoms copy of 
Travels with Trolls, and held it up to show his 
own, winking portrait on the front. 
Me, he said, pointing at it 
and winking as well. Gilderoy 
Lockhart, Order of Merlin, Third Class, Honorary Member of the Dark Force Defense League, and five-time winner of Witch Weeklys 
Most-Charming-Smile Award  bu
t I dont talk about that. I 
didnt get rid of th
e Bandon Banshee by 
smiling
 at her! 
He waited for them to laugh;
 a few people smiled weakly. I see youve all bought a co
mplete set of my books  well done. I thought wed start today 
with a little quiz. Nothing to 
worry about  just to
 check how well you
ve read them, how much youve taken in  
When he had handed out the test pa
pers he returned to the front 
of the class and said, You ha
ve thirty minutes  start  
now! Harry looked down at 
his paper and read: 
 CHAPTER  SIX  100    1. What is Gilderoy Lockharts favorite color
?   2. What is Gilderoy 
Lockharts secret ambition
?   3. What, in your opinio
n, is Gilderoy Lockharts 
greatest achievement to date
?  On and on it went, over three 
sides of paper, right down to:
  54. When is Gilderoy Lock
harts birthday, and what 
would his ideal gift be
?  Half an hour later, Lockhart collected the papers and rifled 
through them in front of the class. Tut, tut  hardly any of you 
remembered that my favorite 
color is lilac. I say so in 
Year with the Yeti. And a few of you need to read Wanderings with Werewolves
 more carefully  I clearly state in chapter twelve that my ideal birthday gift would be harmony be-

tween all magic and non-magic peop
les  though I wouldnt say no 
to a large bottle of Ogdens Old Firewhisky! 
He gave them another roguish 
wink. Ron was now staring at 
Lockhart with an expression of disbelief on his face; Seamus Finni-gan and Dean Thomas, who were sitting in front, were shaking 
with silent laughter. Hermione, on the other hand, was listening to 
Lockhart with rapt attention an
d gave a start when he mentioned 
her name. 
. . . but Miss Hermione Granger knew my secret ambition is to 
rid the world of evil and market my own range of hair-care po-
tions  good girl! In fact  he flipped her paper over  full marks! Where is Miss 
Hermione Granger? 
 GILDEROY LOCKHART  101  Hermione raised 
a trembling hand. Excellent! beamed Lockhart. Quite excellent! Take ten points 
for Gryffindor! And so  to business  
He bent down behind his desk and lifted a large, covered cage onto it. 
Now  be warned! It is my jo
b to arm you against the foulest 
creatures known to wi
zardkind! You may find yourselves facing your worst fears in this room. Know only that no harm can befall 
you whilst I am here. All I as
k is that you remain calm. 
In spite of himself, Harry leaned around his pile of books for a better look at the cage. Lockhart placed a hand on the cover. Dean 
and Seamus had stopped laughing now. Neville was cowering in his front row seat. 
I must ask you not to scream, sa
id Lockhart in a low voice. It 
might provoke them. 
As the whole class held its br
eath, Lockhart whipped off the 
cover. Yes, he said 
dramatically. Freshly caught Cornish pixies.
 Seamus Finnigan couldnt control himself. He let out a snort of 
laughter that even Lockhart couldn
t mistake for a scream of terror. 
Yes? He smil
ed at Seamus. Well, theyre not  theyre not very  
dangerous,
 are they? 
Seamus choked. 
Dont be so sure! said Lockha
rt, waggling a finger annoyingly 
at Seamus. Devilish tricky li
ttle blighters they can be! The pixies were electric blue an
d about eight inches high, with pointed faces and voices so shrill it was like listening to a lot of 
budgies arguing. The moment the cover had been removed, they  
 CHAPTER  SIX  102  had started jabbering and rocketin
g around, rattling
 the bars and 
making bizarre faces at 
the people nearest them. 
Right, then, Lockhart said loud
ly. Lets see what you make of 
them! And he opened the cage. 
It was pandemonium. The pixies shot in every direction like 
rockets. Two of them seized Neville by the ears and lifted him into 
the air. Several shot straight through the window, showering the back row with broken glass. The rest proceeded to wreck the class-
room more effectively than a rampaging rhino. They grabbed ink 
bottles and sprayed the class wi
th them, shredded books and pa-pers, tore pictures from the wa
lls, up-ended the waste basket, 
grabbed bags and books and threw them out of the smashed win-
dow; within minutes, half the class was sheltering under desks and 
Neville was swinging from the ir
on chandelier in the ceiling. 
Come on now  round them up, round them up, theyre only 
pixies, Lockhart shouted. 
He rolled up his sleeves, brandished his wand, and bellowed, Peskipiksi Pesternomi
! It had absolutely no effect; one of the pixies seized his wand and 
threw it out of the window, too. Lockhart gulped and dived under his own desk, narrowly avoiding being squashed by Neville, who 

fell a second later as the chandelier gave way. 
The bell rang and there was a mad rush toward the exit. In the 
relative calm that followed, Lock
hart straightened up, caught sight 
of Harry, Ron, and Hermione, who were almost at the door, and said, Well, Ill ask you three to just
 nip the rest of them back into 
their cage. He swept past them and shut the door quickly behind him.  GILDEROY LOCKHART  103  Can you 
believe him? roared Ron as one of the remaining pix-
ies bit him painfully on the ear. 
He just wants to give us some hands-on experience, said 
Hermione, immobilizing two pixies 
at once with a clever Freezing Charm and stuffing them back into their cage. 
Hands on? said Harry, who was trying to grab a pixie dancing 
out of reach with its tongue out. Hermione, he didnt have a clue 
what he was doing  Rubbish, said Hermione. Youv
e read his books  look at all those amazing things hes done  He says hes done, Ron muttered. 
C H A P T E R  S E V E N   104  MUDBLOODS 
AND MURMURS  
  arry spent a lot of time over
 the next few days dodging out of sight whenever he sa
w Gilderoy Lockhart coming 
down a corridor. Harder to avoid was Colin Creevey, who seemed 
to have memorized Harrys sche
dule. Nothing seemed to give 
Colin a bigger thrill than to say, All right, Harry? six or seven 
times a day and hear, Hello, Co
lin, back, however exasperated 
Harry sounded when he said it. 
Hedwig was still angry with Harry about the disasterous car journey and Rons wand was still malfunctioning, surpassing itself 
on Friday morning by shooting ou
t of Rons hand in Charms and 
hitting tiny old Professor Flitwick
 squarely between the eyes, creat-
ing a large, throbbing green boil wh
ere it had struck. So with one 
thing and another, Harry was quit
e glad to reach the weekend. He, 
Ron, and Hermione were planning to visit Hagrid on Saturday 
morning. Harry, however, was shak
en awake several hours earlier  
 H MUDBLOODS  AND  MURMURS  105  than he would have liked by Oliver Wood, Captain of the Gryf-findor Quidditch team. Whassamatter? said Harry groggily. 
Quidditch practice! said Wood. Come on! Harry squinted at the window. There was a thin mist hanging across the pink-and-gold sky. Now that he was awake, he couldnt 
understand how he could have slept through the racket the birds 
were making. Oliver, Harry croaked. I
ts the crack of dawn. Exactly, said Wood. He was a tall and burly sixth year and, at the moment, his eyes were gleaming
 with a crazed enthusiasm. Its 
part of our new training program. Come on, grab your broom, and lets go, said Wood heartily. None of the other teams have started 
training yet; were going to be 
first off the mark this year  Yawning and shivering slightly, Harry climbed out of bed and 
tried to find his Quidditch robes. 
Good man, said Wood. Meet you on the field in fifteen min-utes. When hed found his scarlet team 
robes and pulled on his cloak for warmth, Harry scribbled a no
te to Ron explaining where 
hed gone and went down the 
spiral staircase to the common room, his Nimbus Two Thousand on his shoulder. He had just 
reached the portrait hole when there was a clatter behind him and 

Colin Creevey came dashing down th
e spiral staircase, his camera 
swinging madly around his neck 
and something clutched in his 
hand. I heard someone saying your name on the stairs, Harry! Look 
what Ive got here! Ive had it de
veloped, I wanted to show you  
 CHAPTER  SEVEN  106  Harry looked bemusedly at the photograph Colin was brandish-ing under his nose. 
A moving, black-and-white Lockha
rt was tugging hard on an 
arm Harry recognized as his own. 
He was pleased to see that his photographic self was putting up a good fight and refusing to be dragged into view. As Harry watched, Lockhart gave up and 
slumped, panting, against the 
white edge of the picture. 
Will you sign it? said Colin eagerly. 

No, said Harry flatly, glancing around to check that the room was really deserted. Sorry, Colin, Im in a hurry  Quidditch practice  He climbed through the portrait hole. 
Oh, wow! Wait for me! Ive never watched a Quidditch game 
before! 
Colin scrambled through the hole after him. 
Itll be really boring, Harry said quickly, but Colin ignored 
him, his face shining with excitement. 
You were the youngest House player in a hundred years, werent 
you, Harry? Werent you? said Coli
n, trotting alongside him. You 
must be brilliant. Ive never flow
n. Is it easy? Is that your own 
broom? Is that the 
best one there is? 
Harry didnt know how to get rid 
of him. It was like having an extremely talkative shadow. 
I dont really understand Quid
ditch, said Coli
n breathlessly. Is it true there are four balls? 
And two of them fly around trying 
to knock people off their brooms? 
Yes, said Harry heavily, resigned
 to explaining the complicated 
rules of Quidditch. Theyre called Bludgers. There are two Beaters  
 MUDBLOODS  AND  MURMURS  107  on each team who carry clubs to be
at the Bludgers away from their 
side. Fred and George Weasley are the Gryffindor Beaters. 
And what are the other balls fo
r? Colin asked, tripping down a couple of steps because he was 
gazing open-mouthed at Harry. 
Well, the Quaffle  thats th
e biggish red one  is the one 
that scores goals. Three Chasers on
 each team throw the Quaffle to 
each other and try and get it thro
ugh the goal posts at the end of 
the pitch  theyre three long 
poles with hoops on the end. 
And the fourth ball  
 is the Golden Snitch, said Ha
rry, and its very small, very fast, and difficult to catch. But thats what the Seekers got to do, 
because a game of Quidditch doesnt
 end until the Snitch has been 
caught. And whichever teams Seeker gets the Snitch earns his team 

an extra hundred and fifty points. 
And youre
 the Gryffindor Seeker, arent you? said Colin in awe. 
Yes, said Harry as they left 
the castle and started across the 
dew-drenched grass. And theres 
the Keeper, too. He guards the 
goal posts. Thats it, really. 
But Colin didnt stop questi
oning Harry all the way down the sloping lawns to the Quidditch field, and Harry only shook him off when he reached the changing rooms; Colin called after him in 
a piping voice, Ill go and get a good seat, Harry! and hurried off to the stands. 
The rest of the Gryffindor team were already in the chang-
ing room. Wood was the only person who looked truly awake. 
Fred and George Weasley were sitting, puffy-eyed and tousle-
haired, next to fourth year Alicia Spinnet, who seemed to be nod-ding off against the wall behind her. Her fellow Chasers, Katie  
 CHAPTER  SEVEN  108  Bell and Angelina Johnson, were yawning side by side opposite 
them. 
There you are, Harry, what kept you? said Wood briskly. Now, I wanted a quick talk with you all before we actually get 
onto the field, because I spent the summer devising a whole new 
training program, which I really think will make all the differ-
ence. . . . Wood was holding up a large diagram of a Quidditch field, on which were drawn many lines, arrows, and crosses in different-
colored inks. He took out his wand, tapped the board, and the arrows began to wiggle over the diagram like caterpillars. As Wood launched into a speech about his new tactics, 
Fred Weasleys head 
drooped right onto Alicia Spinnets should
er and he began to snore. The first board took nearly twent
y minutes to explain, but there 
was another board under that, and a third under that one. Harry sank into a stupor as Wood droned on and on. So, said Wood, at long last, jerking Harry from a wistful fan-tasy about what he could be eating
 for breakfast at this very mo-ment up at the castle. Is 
that clear? Any questions? 
Ive got a question, Oliver, sa
id George, who had woken with 
a start. Why couldnt you have to
ld us all this yesterday when we 
were awake? 
Wood wasnt 
pleased. Now, listen here, you lot, he said, glowering at them all. We 
should have won the Quidditch Cup last year. Were easily the best 
team. But unfortunately  owing 
to circumstances beyond our 
control  
 MUDBLOODS  AND  MURMURS  109  Harry shifted guiltily in his se
at. He had been unconscious in 
the hospital wing for the final ma
tch of the previous year, meaning 
that Gryffindor had been a player short and had suffered their 
worst defeat in three hundred years. 
Wood took a moment to regain control of himself. Their last de-feat was clearly st
ill torturing him. 
So this year, we train harder than
 ever before. . . . Okay, lets go 
and put our new theories into practice! Wood shouted, seizing his broomstick and leading the way out of the locker rooms. Stiff-
legged and still yawnin
g, his team followed. 
They had been in the locker room so long that the sun was up 
completely now, although remnants of mist hung over the grass in 
the stadium. As Harry walked onto
 the field, he saw Ron and Her-
mione sitting in the stands. 
Arent you finished yet? 
called Ron incredulously. 
Havent even started, said Harry
, looking jealously at the toast and marmalade Ron and Hermione had brought out of the Great 

Hall. Woods been teaching us new moves. He mounted his broomstick and kicked at the ground, soaring 
up into the air. The cool morning air whipped his face, waking him 
far more effectively than Woods lo
ng talk. It felt wonderful to be 
back on the Quidditch field. He soared right around the stadium 

at full speed, racing Fred and George. 
Whats that funny clicking noise?
 called Fred as they hurtled 
around the corner. 
Harry looked into the stands. Colin was sitting in one of the 
highest seats, his camera raised, 
taking picture after picture, the 
sound strangely magnified in the deserted stadium. 

 CHAPTER  SEVEN  110  Look this way, Harry! Th
is way! he cried shrilly. 
Whos that? said Fred. 
No idea, Harry lied, putting on a spurt of speed that took him as far away as possible from Colin. 
Whats going on? said Wood, frowning, as he skimmed 
through the air toward them. Whys that first year taking pictures? 

I dont like it. He could be a Slythe
rin spy, trying to find out about 
our new training program. 
Hes in Gryffindor, 
said Harry quickly. And the Slytherins dont need 
a spy, Oliver, said George. 
What makes you say that? said Wood testily. Because theyre here in pers
on, said George, pointing. 
Several people in green robes were walking onto the field, 
broomsticks in their hands. 
I dont believe it! Wood hissed in
 outrage. I booked the field for today! Well see about this! 
Wood shot toward the ground, landing rather harder than he meant to in his anger, staggering slightly as he dismounted. Harry, 
Fred, and George followed. Flint! Wood bellowed at the Slytherin Captain. This is our practice time! We got up specially! You can clear off now! 
Marcus Flint was even larger than Wood. He had a look of troll-
ish cunning on his face as he replied, Plenty of room for all of us, 

Wood. Angelina, Alicia, and Katie had come over, too. There were no 
girls on the Slytherin team, who stood shoulder to shoulder, facing the Gryffindors, leering to a man. 
But I booked the field! said Wood, positively spitting with rage. I booked it! 
MUDBLOODS  AND  MURMURS  111  Ah, said Flint. But Ive got a 
specially signed note here from 
Professor Snape. I, Professor S. Snape, give the Slytherin team per-
mission to practice today on the Qui
dditch field owing to the need to 
train their new Seeker.
 
Youve got a new Seeker? said Wood, distracted. Where? And from behind the six large figures before them came a sev-enth, smaller boy, smirking all over his pale, pointed face. It was 
Draco Malfoy. Arent you Lucius Malfoys son?
 said Fred, looking at Malfoy with dislike. Funny you should mention Dracos father, said Flint as the whole Slytherin team smiled still 
more broadly. Let me show you 
the generous gift hes made
 to the Slytherin team. 
All seven of them held out their broomsticks. Seven highly pol-
ished, brand-new handles and sev
en sets of fine gold lettering 
spelling the words Nimbus Two Thousand and One
 gleamed under the Gryffindors noses in the early morning sun. 
Very latest model. Only came
 out last month, said Flint 
carelessly, flicking a speck of dust from the end of his own. I be-lieve it outstrips the old Two Thou
sand series by a considerable 
amount. As for the old Cleansweeps  he smiled nastily at Fred 
and George, who were both clutching Cleansweep Fives  sweeps 
the board with them. 
None of the Gryffindor team could think of anything to say for 
a moment. Malfoy was smirking so broadly his cold eyes were re-
duced to slits. Oh, look, said Flint. A field invasion. 

Ron and Hermione were crossing 
the grass to se
e what was go-
ing on. 
CHAPTER  SEVEN  112  Whats happening? Ron asked Ha
rry. Why arent you play-
ing? And whats 
he doing here? He was looking at Malfoy, taking in his Slytherin Quidditch 
robes. 
Im the new Slytherin Seeker, Weasley, said Malfoy, smugly. 
Everyones just been admiring the 
brooms my fathers bought our 
team. 
Ron gaped, openmouthed, at the seven superb broomsticks in 
front of him. Good, arent they? said Malf
oy smoothly. But perhaps the Gryffindor team will be able to raise some gold and get new 
brooms, too. You could raffle off those Cleansweep Fives; I expect a museum would bid for them. 
The Slytherin team howled with laughter. 
At least no one on the 
Gryffindor team had to buy
 their way in, said Hermione sharply. 
They got in on pure talent. 
The smug look on Malfoys face flickered. 
No one asked your opinion, you filthy little Mudblood, he spat. Harry knew at once that Malfoy had said something really bad 
because there was an instant uproar 
at his words. Flint had to dive 
in front of Malfoy to stop Fred and George jumping on him, Ali-

cia shrieked, 
How dare you
!, and Ron plunged his hand into his 
robes, pulled out his wand, yellin
g, Youll pay for that one, Mal-
foy! and pointed it furiously under Flints ar
m at Malfoys face. 
A loud bang echoed around the 
stadium and a jet of green light 
shot out of the wrong end of Ron
s wand, hitting him in the stom-
ach and sending him reeling 
backward onto the grass. 
 MUDBLOODS  AND  MURMURS  113  Ron! Ron! Are you all ri
ght? squealed Hermione. 
Ron opened his mouth to speak, but no words came out. Instead 
he gave an almighty belch and se
veral slugs dribbled out of his mouth onto his lap. 
The Slytherin team were paralyzed with laughter. Flint was dou-
bled up, hanging onto his new br
oomstick for support. Malfoy was 
on all fours, banging the ground wi
th his fist. The Gryffindors were 
gathered around Ron, who kept be
lching large, glis
tening slugs. 
Nobody seemed to want to touch him. 
Wed better get him to Hagrids, its nearest, said Harry to 
Hermione, who nodded bravely, and the pair of them pulled Ron up by the arms. What happened, Harry? What happ
ened? Is he ill? But you can 
cure him, cant you? Colin had 
run down from his seat and was now dancing alongside them as they left the field. Ron gave a huge 
heave and more slugs dribbled down his front. Oooh, said Colin, fascinated 
and raising his camera. Can you 
hold him still, Harry? 
Get out of the way, Colin! said Harry angrily. He and Her-
mione supported Ron out of the stadium and across the grounds toward the edge of the forest. 
Nearly there, Ron, said Hermione as the gamekeepers cabin 
came into view. Youll be all right in a minu
te  almost there  They were within twenty feet of
 Hagrids house when the front 
door opened, but it wasnt Hagrid who emer
ged. Gilderoy Lock-hart, wearing robes of palest ma
uve today, came striding out. Quick, behind here, Harry hissed, dragging Ron behind a 
nearby bush. Hermione follow
ed, somewhat reluctantly.  CHAPTER  SEVEN  114  Its a simple matter if you know
 what youre doing! Lockhart 
was saying loudly to Hagrid. If you need help, you know where I 
am! Ill let you have a copy of my book. Im surprised you havent 

already got one  Ill sign one tonight and send it over. Well, 
good-bye! And he strode away toward the castle. Harry waited until Lockhart was ou
t of sight, then pulled Ron out of the bush and up to Hagrids front door. They knocked ur-gently. Hagrid appeared at once, looking very grumpy, but his expres-
sion brightened when 
he saw who it was. 
Bin wonderin when youd come ter see me  come in, come 
in  thought you mighta bin Pro
fessor Lockhart back again  Harry and Hermione supported Ron over the threshold into the 
one-roomed cabin, which had an enormous bed in one corner, a 

fire crackling merrily in the other. Hagrid didnt seem perturbed by 
Rons slug problem, which Harry 
hastily explained as he lowered 
Ron into a chair. Better out than in, he said ch
eerfully, plunking a large copper 
basin in front of him. Get em all up, Ron. I dont think theres anything to 
do except wait for it to stop, said Hermione anxiously, watching Ron bend over the basin. 
Thats a difficult curse to work at 
the best of times, but with a bro-
ken wand  Hagrid was bustling around maki
ng them tea. His boarhound, 
Fang, was slobbering over Harry. 
What did Lockhart want with 
you, Hagrid? Harry asked, 
scratching Fangs ears. 
Givin me advice on gettin kelpies out of a well, growled  
 MUDBLOODS  AND  MURMURS  115  Hagrid, moving a half-plucked ro
oster off his scrubbed table and 
setting down the teapot. Like I 
don know. An bangin on about 
some banshee he banished. If one wo
rd of it was true, Ill eat my 
kettle. It was most unlike Hagrid to cr
iticize a Hogwarts teacher, and 
Harry looked at him in surprise. Hermione, however, said in a 
voice somewhat higher 
than usual, I think youre being a bit un-fair. Professor Dumbledore obviously thought he was the best man 
for the job  
He was the ony
 man for the job, said 
Hagrid, offering them a 
plate of treacle toffee, while Ron coughed squelchily into his basin. 
An I mean the 
ony
 one. Gettin very difficult ter find anyone fer 
the Dark Arts job. People arent to
o keen ter take it on, see. Theyre 
startin ter think its jinxed. No o
nes lasted long fer a while now. So 
tell me, said Hagrid, jerking his head at Ron. Who was he tryin 

ter curse? 
Malfoy called Hermione something  it mustve been really 
bad, because everyone went wild. 
It was bad, said Ron hoarsely, emer
ging over the tabletop look-ing pale and sweaty. Malfoy called her Mudblood, Hagrid  Ron dived out of sight again as a fresh wave of slugs made their 
appearance. Hagrid looked outraged. 
He didn! he growled at Hermione. 

He did, she said. But I dont know what it means. I could tell 
it was really rude, of course  
Its about the most insulting th
ing he could think of, gasped 
Ron, coming back up. Mudbloods a really foul name for someone who is Muggle-born  you know, 
non-magic parents. There are  
 CHAPTER  SEVEN  116  some wizards  like Malfoys family  who think theyre better 
than everyone else because theyre what people call pure-blood. He gave a small burp, and a single slug fell into his outstretched 
hand. He threw it into
 the basin and continue
d, I mean, the rest of us know it doesnt make any 
difference at all. Look at Neville Longbottom  hes pure-blood an
d he can hardly stand a caul-
dron the right way up. An they havent invented a spell our Hermione can do, said 
Hagrid proudly, making Hermione 
go a brilliant shade of magenta. 
Its a disgusting thing to call someone, said Ron, wiping his 
sweaty brow with a shaking hand. Dirty blood, see. Common 
blood. Its ridiculous. Most wizards these days are half-blood any-way. If we hadnt married 
Muggles wedve died out. He retched and ducked out of sight again. Well, I don blame yeh fer tryin
 ter curse him, Ron, said Ha-grid loudly over the thuds of mo
re slugs hitting the basin. Bu 
maybe it was a good thing yer wand backfired. Spect Lucius Mal-foy wouldve come marchin up ter 
school if yehd cursed his son. 
Least yer not in trouble. 
Harry would have pointed out that trouble didnt come much 
worse than having slugs pouring out of your mouth, but he 
couldnt; Hagrids treacle toffee 
had cemented his jaws together. 
Harry, said Hagrid abruptly 
as though struck by a sudden 
thought. Gotta bone ter pick with yeh. Ive heard youve bin givin 

out signed photos. How come I havent got one? 
Furious, Harry wrench
ed his teeth apart. I have not been giving out signed photos, he said hotly. If 
Lockharts still spreading that around  
 MUDBLOODS  AND  MURMURS  117  But then he saw that Hagrid was laughing. Im ony jokin, he said, patt
ing Harry genially on the back and 
sending him face first into the tabl
e. I knew yeh hadnt really. I 
told Lockhart yeh didn need teh. 
Yer more famous than him with-
out tryin. 
Bet he didnt like that, said 
Harry, sitting up and rubbing his chin. Don think he did, said Hagrid, his eyes twinkling. An then 
I told him Id never re
ad one o his books an he decided ter go. Treacle toffee, Ron? he added as Ron reappeared. 
No thanks, said Ron weakly. Better not risk it. 
Come an see what Ive bin growin, said Hagrid as Harry and 
Hermione finished the 
last of their tea. In the small vegetable patch behi
nd Hagrids house were a dozen 
of the largest pumpkins Harry had ever seen. Each was the size of a 
large boulder. Gettin on well, arent they? 
said Hagrid happily. Fer the Hal-
loween feast . . . should be big enough by then. 
Whatve you been feeding them? said Harry. 
Hagrid looked over his shoulder to check that they were alone. 
Well, Ive bin givin them  you know  a bit o help  
Harry noticed Hagrids flowery 
pink umbrella leaning against the back wall of the cabin. Harry 
had had reason to believe before now that this umbrella was not al
l it looked; in fact, he had the strong impression that Hagrids old school wand was concealed in-side it. Hagrid wasnt supposed to
 use magic. He had been expelled 
from Hogwarts in his third year
, but Harry had never found out 
why  any mention of the matter and Hagrid would clear his  
 CHAPTER  SEVEN  118  throat loudly and become mysterio
usly deaf until the subject was 
changed. 
An Engorgement Charm, I suppose? said Hermione, halfway 
between disapproval and amusement. Well, youve
 done a good job on them. 
Thats what yer little sister said, said Hagrid, nodding at Ron. Met her jus yesterday. Hagrid 
looked sideways at Harry, his 
beard twitching. Said she was jus lookin round the grounds, but 
I reckon she was hopin she migh
t run inter someo
ne else at my house. He winked at Harry. If yeh ask me, 
she wouldn say no ter 
a signed  
Oh, shut up, said Harry. Ron snorted with laughter and the ground was sprayed with slugs. 
Watch it! Hagrid roared, pull
ing Ron away from his precious 
pumpkins. It was nearly lunchtime and as Harry had only had one bit of 
treacle toffee since dawn, he was k
een to go back to school to eat. They said good-bye to Hagrid and walked back up to the castle, Ron hiccoughing occasionally, but on
ly bringing up two very small 
slugs. They had barely set foot in th
e cool entrance hall when a voice 
rang out, There you are, Potte
r  Weasley. Professor McGona-
gall was walking toward them, lo
oking stern. You will both do your detentions this evening. 
Whatre we doing, Professor? said Ron, nervously suppressing 
a burp. 
You will be polishing the silver 
in the trophy room with Mr. 
Filch, said Professor McGonagall. And no magic, Weasley  el-bow grease. 
MUDBLOODS  AND  MURMURS  119  Ron gulped. Argus Filch, the care
taker, was loathed by every stu-
dent in the school. 
And you, Potter, will be helpin
g Professor Lockhart answer his fan mail, said Pr
ofessor McGonagall. 
Oh n  Professor, cant I go 
and do the trophy room, too? 
said Harry desperately. 
Certainly not, said Professor McGonagall, raising her eyebrows. 
Professor Lockhart requested you particularly. Eight oclock 
sharp, both of you. 
Harry and Ron slouched into the Gr
eat Hall in states of deepest 
gloom, Hermione behind them, wearing a 
well-you-did-break-
school-rules sort of expression. Harry didnt enjoy his shepherds pie 
as much as hed thought. Both he
 and Ron felt theyd got the worse 
deal. Filchll have me there all night, said Ron heavily. No magic! 
There must be about a hundred cups in that room. Im no good at 

Muggle cleaning. 
Id swap anytime, said Harry hollowly. Ive had loads of prac-tice with the Dursleys. Answering Lockharts fan mail . . . hell be a nightmare. . . . Saturday afternoon seemed to melt away, and in what seemed 
like no time, it was five minute
s to eight, and Harry was dragging 
his feet along the second-floor co
rridor to Lockharts office. He gritted his teeth and knocked. The door flew open at once. Lockhart beamed down at him. Ah, heres the scalawag! he said. Come in, Harry, come in  

Shining brightly on the walls by the light of many candles were 
countless framed photographs of Lockhart. He had even signed a few of them. Another larg
e pile lay on his desk. CHAPTER  SEVEN  120  You can address the envelopes! Lockhart told Ha
rry, as though this was a huge treat. This first ones to Gladys Gudgeon, bless 
her  huge fan of mine  
The minutes snailed by. Harry let Lockharts voice wash over him, occasionally saying, Mmm and Right and Yeah. Now 
and then he caught a phrase like, Fames a fickle friend, Harry, or Celebrity is as celebrit
y does, remember that. 
The candles burned lower and lo
wer, making the light dance 
over the many moving faces of Lockhart watching him. Harry 
moved his aching hand over what felt like the thousandth enve-
lope, writing out Veronica Smethleys address. 
It must be nearly time 

to leave,
 Harry thought miserably, please let it be nearly time. . . . And then he heard something  something quite apart from 
the spitting of the dying candles and Lockharts prattle about his fans. It was a voice, a voice to chill the bone marrow, a voice of breath-taking, ice-cold venom. 
Come . . . come to me. . . . Let me rip you. . . . Let me tear 
you. . . . Let me kill you. . . . Harry gave a huge jump and a large lilac blot appeared on Veronica Smethleys street. 
What
? he said loudly. 
I know! said Lockhart. Six solid months at the top of the 
best-seller list! Broke all records! 
No, said Harry frantically. That voice! 
Sorry? said Lockhart, look
ing puzzled. What voice? 
That  that voice that said  didnt you hear it? 

Lockhart was looking at Harry in high astonishment. 
 MUDBLOODS  AND  MURMURS  121  What are you talking about, Harry? Perhaps youre getting a lit-tle drowsy? Great Scott  look at the time! Weve been here nearly 
four hours! Id never have
 believed it  the time
s flown, hasnt it? 
Harry didnt answer. He was strain
ing his ears to hear the voice again, but there was no sound now 
except for Lockhart telling him he mustnt expect a treat like this 
every time he got 
detention. Feel-ing dazed, Harry left. It was so late that the Gryffindor common room was almost 
empty. Harry went straight up to the dormitory. Ron wasnt back 
yet. Harry pulled on his pajamas, got into bed, and waited. Half an hour later, Ron arrived, nursing his right arm and bringing a strong 
smell of polish into the darkened room. My muscles have all seized up, he groaned, sinking on his bed. 
Fourteen times he made me buff up that Quidditch Cup before he 
was satisfied. And then I had another slug attack all over a Special 
Award for Services to the School. Took ages to get the slime off. . . . How was it with Lockhart? Keeping his voice low so as not to wake Neville, Dean, and Sea-
mus, Harry told Ron exactly what he had heard. And Lockhart said he couldnt 
hear it? said Ron. Harry could 
see him frowning in the moonlight. Dyou think he was lying? 

But I dont get it  even someone 
invisible wouldve had to open the door. I know, said Harry, lying back in his four-poster and staring at 
the canopy above him. I dont get it either. 
C H A P T E R  E I G H T   122  THE DEATHDAY PARTY 
   ctober arrived, spreading a damp chill over the grounds 

and into the castle. Madam Pomfrey, the nurse, was kept busy by a sudden spate of colds among the staff and students. Her 
Pepperup Potion worked instantly, th
ough it left the drinker smok-ing at the ears for several hours afterward. Ginny Weasley, who had 
been looking pale, was bullied into taking some by Percy. The 
steam pouring from under her vivid hair gave the impression that 
her whole head was on fire. Raindrops the size of bullets th
undered on the castle windows for days on end; the lake rose, the flower beds turned into muddy 
streams, and Hagrids pumpkins swelled to the size of garden sheds. 
Oliver Woods enthusiasm for regula
r training sessions, however, 
was not dampened, which was why Harr
y was to be found, late one 
stormy Saturday afternoon a few 
days before Halloween, returning to Gryffindor Tower, drenched to th
e skin and splattered with mud.  
 O THE  DEATHDAY  PARTY  123  Even aside from the rain and wind it hadnt been a happy prac-
tice session. Fred and George, wh
o had been spying on the Slyth-
erin team, had seen for themselves the speed of those new Nimbus 
Two Thousand and Ones. They reported that the Slytherin team was no more than seve
n greenish blurs, shooting through the air 
like missiles. 
As Harry squelched along the deserted corridor he came across 
somebody who looked just as preoccupied as he was. Nearly Head-
less Nick, the ghost of Gryffindor Tower, was staring morosely out of a window, muttering under his breath, . . . dont fulfill their re-

quirements . . . half an inch, if that . . . Hello, Nick, said Harry. 
Hello, hello, said Nearly Headless Nick, starting and looking 
round. He wore a dashing, plumed hat on his long curly hair, and 

a tunic with a ruff, which concealed the fact that his neck was al-
most completely severed. He was pale as smoke, and Harry could 

see right through him to the dark sky and torrential rain outside. 
You look troubled, young Potter, said Nick, folding a trans-
parent letter as he spoke and tucking it inside his doublet. 
So do you, said Harry. 
Ah, Nearly Headless Nick waved an elegant hand, a matter of 
no importance. . . . Its not as though I really wanted to join. . . . Thought Id apply, but apparently I dont fulfill requirements  
In spite of his airy tone, there 
was a look of great bitterness on 
his face. 
But you would think, wouldnt
 you, he erupted suddenly, 
pulling the letter back out of his 
pocket, that getting hit forty-five times in the neck with a blunt axe would qualify you to join the 

Headless Hunt? 
CHAPTER  EIGHT  124  Oh  yes, said Harry, who was obviously supposed to agree. 
I mean, nobody wishes more th
an I do that it had all been quick and clean, and my head had come off properly, I mean, it would have saved me a great deal of pain and ridicule. However  Nearly Headless Nick shook his letter open and read furiously: 
 We can only accept huntsmen whose heads have 
parted company with their bodies. You will appreciate 
that it would be impossible otherwise for members to 
participate in hunt activities such as Horseback Head-Juggling and Head Polo. It is with the greatest regret, 

therefore, that I must inform you that you do not ful-
fill our requirements. With very best wishes, Sir Patrick Delaney-Podmore
. 
 Fuming, Nearly Headless Nick stuffed the letter away. 
Half an inch of skin and sinew holding my neck on, Harry! 
Most people would think thats good and beheaded, but oh, no, its not enough for Sir Proper
ly Decapitated-Podmore. Nearly Headless Nick took several 
deep breaths and then said, in 
a far calmer tone, So  whats bothering you? Anything I can do? 
No, said Harry. Not unless you know where we can get seven 
free Nimbus Two Thousand and Ones for our match against Sly  
The rest of Harrys sentence was drowned out by a high-pitched 
mewling from somewhere near his ankles. He looked down and 
found himself gazing into a pair 
of lamp-like yellow eyes. It was 
Mrs. Norris, the skeletal gray cat 
who was used by the caretaker, Ar-
gus Filch, as a sort of deputy in his endless battle against students. 
Youd better get out of here, Harry, said Nick quickly. Filch THE  DEATHDAY  PARTY  125  isnt in a good mood  hes got th
e flu and some third years acci-dentally plastered frog brains all 
over the ceiling in dungeon five. 
Hes been cleaning all morning, and if he sees you dripping mud all 
over the place  Right, said Harry, backing away from the accusing stare of Mrs. Norris, but not quickly enough. Drawn to the spot by the mysteri-
ous power that seemed to connect him with his foul cat, Argus Filch 
burst suddenly through a tapestry to Harrys right, wheezing and 
looking wildly about for the rule-breaker. There was a thick tartan 

scarf bound around his head, and his nose was unusually purple. 
Filth! he shouted, his jowls aquiver, his eyes popping alarm-
ingly as he pointed at the mudd
y puddle that ha
d dripped from Harrys Quidditch robe
s. Mess and muck everywhere! Ive had enough of it, I tell yo
u! Follow me, Potter! 
So Harry waved a gloomy good-bye to Nearly Headless Nick and 
followed Filch back downstairs, 
doubling the number of muddy footprints on the floor. 
Harry had never been inside Filchs office before; it was a place most students avoided. The room was dingy and windowless, lit by 
a single oil lamp dangling from the 
low ceiling. A faint smell of fried 
fish lingered about the place. Wooden filing cabinets stood around the walls; from their labels, Harry could see th
at they contained de-tails of every pupil Filch had ever punished. Fred and George Weasley had an entire drawer to themselves. A highly polished col-lection of chains and manacles hu
ng on the wall behind Filchs desk. 
It was common knowledge that he was always begging Dumbledore 
to let him suspend students by 
their ankles from the ceiling. 
Filch grabbed a quill from a pot 
on his desk and began shuffling around looking for parchment. 
CHAPTER  EIGHT  126  Dung, he muttered furiously, great sizzling dragon bogies . . . 
frog brains . . . rat intestines . . . Ive had enough of it . . . make an 
example
 . . . wheres the fo
rm . . . yes . . . He retrieved a large roll of parchment from his desk drawer and 
stretched it out in front of him, dipping his long black quill into the 
ink pot. 
Name . . . Harry Potter. 
Crime
 . . . It was only a bit of mud! said Harry. 

Its only a bit of mud to you, boy, but to me its an extra hour 
scrubbing! shouted Filch, a drip shivering unpleasantly at the end 

of his bulbous nose. Crime . . . befouling the castle . . . suggested 
sentence
 . . . Dabbing at his streaming nose, Filch squinted unpleasantly at 
Harry, who waited with bated br
eath for his sentence to fall. 
But as Filch lowered his quill, there was a great BANG! on the 
ceiling of the office, which 
made the oil lamp rattle. PEEVES! Filch roared, flinging down his quill in a transport of 
rage. Ill have you this time, Ill have you! 
And without a backward glance 
at Harry, Filch ran flat-footed 
from the office, Mrs. Norr
is streaking alongside him. 
Peeves was the school poltergei
st, a grinning, airborne menace 
who lived to cause havoc and distress. Harry didnt much like 
Peeves, but couldnt help feeling grateful for his timing. Hope-

fully, whatever Peeves had done (a
nd it sounded as though hed wrecked something very big this ti
me) would distract Filch from Harry. Thinking that he should probably wait for Filch to come back, 
Harry sank into a moth-eaten chair next to the desk. There was only one thing on it apart from his half
-completed form: a large, glossy, THE  DEATHDAY  PARTY  127  purple envelope with silver lettering on the front. With a quick 
glance at the door to check that Filch wasnt on his way back, Harry 
picked up the envelope and read: 
 KWIKSPELL A Correspondence Course in Beginners Magic 
 
Intrigued, Harry flicked the envelope open and pulled out the 
sheaf of parchment inside. More curly silver writing on the front 
page said:  Feel out of step in the world of modern magic? Find yourself making excuses not to perform simple spells? Ever been taunted for your woe-
ful wandwork? 
There is an answer! 
 
Kwikspell is an all-new, fail-saf
e, quick-result, easy-learn course. 
Hundreds of witches and wizards have benefited from the Kwikspell method! 
 
Madam Z. Nettles of Topsham writes: 
I had no memory for incantations and my potions were a family joke! Now, after a Kwikspell course, I am 
the center of attention at parties 
and friends beg for the recipe 
of my Scintillation Solution! 
 Warlock D. J. Prod of Didsbury says: 
My wife used to sneer at my feeble charms, but one month into your 

fabulous Kwikspell course and I succ
eeded in turning her into a yak! 
Thank you, Kwikspell! 
CHAPTER  EIGHT  128  Fascinated, Harry thumbed through the rest of the envelopes 
contents. Why on earth did Filch want a Kwikspell course? Did 
this mean he wasnt a proper wi
zard? Harry was just reading Les-
son One: Holding Your Wand (Some Useful Tips) when shuffling 
footsteps outside told him Filch 
was coming back. Stuffing the 
parchment back into the envelope, Harry threw it back onto the desk just as the door opened. 
Filch was looking triumphant. 
That vanishing cabinet was extrem
ely valuable! he was saying 
gleefully to Mrs. Norr
is. Well have Peeves out this time, my 
sweet  
His eyes fell on Harry and then
 darted to the Kwikspell enve-
lope, which, Harry realized too la
te, was lying two feet away from 
where it had started. 
Filchs pasty face went brick red.
 Harry braced himself for a tidal 
wave of fury. Filch hobbled across 
to his desk, snatched up the en-
velope, and threw it
 into a drawer. Have you  did you read
  ? he sputtered. 
No, Harry lied quickly. Filchs knobbly hands were twisting together. 
If I thought youd read my privat
e  not that its mine  for a friend  be that as it may  however  
Harry was staring at him, alarmed;
 Filch had never looked mad-der. His eyes were popping, a tic 
was going in one of his pouchy 
cheeks, and the tartan
 scarf didnt help. 
Very well  go  and dont 
breathe a word  not that  
however, if you didnt read  go now, I have to write up Peeves re-
port  go  
 THE  DEATHDAY  PARTY  129  Amazed at his luck, Harry sped out of the office, up the corridor, 
and back upstairs. To escape from Filchs office without punish-
ment was probably some kind of school record. 
Harry! Harry! Did it work? Nearly Headless Nick came glid
ing out of a classroom. Behind him, Harry could see the wreckage 
of a large black-and-gold cabi-
net that appeared to have been dropped from a great height. 
I persuaded Peeves to crash it right over Filchs office, said 
Nick eagerly. Thought it
 might distract him  
Was that you? said Harry gratefully. Yeah, it worked, I didnt 
even get detention. Thanks, Nick! 
They set off up the corridor together. Nearly Headless Nick, 
Harry noticed, was still holding 
Sir Patricks re
jection letter. I wish there was something I 
could do for you about the Head-less Hunt, Harry said. 
Nearly Headless Nick stopped in his tracks and Harry walked 
right through him. He wished he hadnt; it was like stepping through 
an icy shower. But there is something you could do for me, said Nick ex-
citedly. Harry  would I be asking too much  but no, you 
wouldnt want  
What is it? said Harry. 
Well, this Halloween will be my five hundredth deathday, said 
Nearly Headless Nick, drawing himself up and looking dignified. 
Oh, said Harry, not sure whet
her he should 
look sorry or happy about this. Right. 
Im holding a party down in one of the roomier dungeons. 
Friends will be coming from all over
 the country. It would be such  
 CHAPTER  EIGHT  130  an honor if you would attend. Mr. Weasley and Miss Granger 
would be most welcom
e, too, of course  but I daresay youd 
rather go to the school feast? He watched Harry on tenterhooks. 
No, said Harry quickly, Ill come  My dear boy! Harry Potter, at my deathday party! And  
he hesitated, looking excited  do you think you could possibly 
mention to Sir Patrick how 
very frightening and impressive you find me? Of  of course, said Harry. 
Nearly Headless Nick beamed at him.  A deathday party? said Herm
ione keenly when Harry had 
changed at last and joined her and Ron in the common room. I 
bet there arent many living people
 who can say theyve been to one 
of those  itll be fascinating! 
Why would anyone want to celebrate the day they died? 
said Ron, who was halfway through his Potions homework and 
grumpy. Sounds dead depressing to me. . . . Rain was still lashing the windows, which were now inky black, 
but inside all looked bright and cheerful. The firelight glowed over the countless squashy armchairs where people sat reading, talking, 
doing homework or, in the case of Fred and George Weasley, trying to find out what would happen if yo
u fed a Filibuster firework to a salamander. Fred had rescued the brilliant orange, fire-dwelling 

lizard from a Care of Magical Creatures class and it was now 
smoldering gently on a table surrounded by a knot of curious people. 
Harry was at the point of tellin
g Ron and Hermione about Filch   THE  DEATHDAY  PARTY  131  and the Kwikspell course when th
e salamander suddenly whizzed 
into the air, emitting loud sparks
 and bangs as it whirled wildly 
round the room. The si
ght of Percy bellowing himself hoarse at 
Fred and George, the spectacular di
splay of tangerine stars shower-
ing from the salamanders mouth, an
d its escape into the fire, with 
accompanying explosions, drove 
both Filch and the Kwikspell en-
velope from Harrys mind. 
 By the time Halloween arrived, Harry was regretting his rash 
promise to go to the deathday pa
rty. The rest of
 the school was happily anticipating their Hallowee
n feast; the Great Hall had been decorated with the usual live bats, Hagrids
 vast pumpkins had 
been carved into lanterns large en
ough for three men to sit in, and there were rumors that Dumbledore
 had booked a troupe of danc-
ing skeletons for the entertainment. 
A promise is a promise, Hermione reminded Harry bossily. 
You 
said
 youd go to the deathday party. So at seven oclock, Harry, Ron, and Hermione walked straight past the doorway to the packed 
Great Hall, which was glittering 
invitingly with gold plates and ca
ndles, and directed their steps in-stead toward the dungeons. The passageway leading to Near
ly Headless Nicks party had 
been lined with candles, too, though the effe
ct was far from cheer-
ful: These were long, thin, jet-blac
k tapers, all burning bright blue, 
casting a dim, ghostly light even over their own living faces. The 
temperature dropped with every step
 they took. As Harry shivered 
and drew his robes tightly around him, he heard what sounded like 
a thousand fingernails scraping an enormous blackboard. 
 CHAPTER  EIGHT  132  Is that supposed to be music
? Ron whispered. They turned a 
corner and saw Nearly Headless Nick standing at a doorway hung with black velvet drapes. 
My dear friends, he said mournfully. Welcome, welcome . . . 
so pleased you could come. . . . 
He swept off his plumed ha
t and bowed them inside. It was an incredible sight. The 
dungeon was full of hundreds of 
pearly-white, translucent people, mo
stly drifting around a crowded dance floor, waltzing to the drea
dful, quavering sound of thirty musical saws, played by an orchestr
a on a raised, black-draped plat-
form. A chandelier overhead blazed midnight-blue with a thou-
sand more black candles. Their breath rose in a mist before them; 
it was like stepping
 into a freezer. 
Shall we have a look around? Harry suggested, wanting to 
warm up his feet. Careful not to walk through anyone, said Ron nervously, and 
they set off around the edge of 
the dance floor. They passed a group of gloomy nuns, a ragged man wearing chains, and the Fat Friar, 
a cheerful Hufflepuff ghost, who wa
s talking to a knight with an 
arrow sticking out of his forehead. Harry wasnt surprised to see 
that the Bloody Baron, a gaunt, staring Slytherin ghost covered 
in silver bloodstains, was being given a wide berth by the other 
ghosts. Oh, no, said Hermione, stopping abruptly. Turn back, turn 
back, I dont want to talk to Moaning Myrtle  
Who? said Harry as th
ey backtracked quickly. 
She haunts one of the toilets in the girls bathroom on the first 
floor, said Hermione. 
She haunts a 
toilet? THE  DEATHDAY  PARTY  133  Yes. Its been out-of-order al
l year because she keeps having 
tantrums and flooding the place. I never went 
in there anyway if I 
could avoid it; its awful trying to have a pe
e with her wailing at 
you  Look, food! said Ron. 
On the other side of the dungeon 
was a long table, also covered 
in black velvet. They approached it eagerly but next moment had 
stopped in their tracks, horrified
. The smell was quite disgusting. 
Large, rotten fish were laid on 
handsome silver platters; cakes, burned charcoal-black, were heaped
 on salvers; there was a great 
maggoty haggis, a slab of cheese co
vered in furry green mold and, 
in pride of place, an enormous gr
ay cake in the shape of a tomb-
stone, with tar-like icing forming the words,  Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington died 31st October, 
1492  Harry watched, amazed, as a portly
 ghost approached the table, 
crouched low, and walked through 
it, his mouth held wide so that 
it passed through one of
 the stinking salmon. 
Can you taste it if you walk
 through it? Harry asked him. 
Almost, said the ghost sa
dly, and he drifted away. I expect theyve let it rot to give
 it a stronger flavor, said Her-
mione knowledgeably, pinching her 
nose and leaning closer to look 
at the putrid haggis. 
Can we move? I feel sick, said Ron. 
They had barely turned around
, however, when a little man swooped suddenly from under the table and came to a halt in 
midair before them. 
CHAPTER  EIGHT  134  Hello, Peeves, said Harry cautiously. 
Unlike the ghosts around them, Peeves the Poltergeist was the 
very reverse of pale and transparent. He was wearing a bright or-
ange party hat, a revolving bow tie, and a broad grin on his wide, wicked face. 
Nibbles? he said sweetly, offer
ing them a bowl of peanuts cov-ered in fungus. 
No thanks, said Hermione. Heard you talking about poor Myrtle, said Peeves, his eyes 
dancing. Rude you was about poor Myrtle. He took a deep breath and bellowed, OY! MYRTLE! 
Oh, no, Peeves, dont tell her what 
I said, shell be really upset, 
Hermione whispered frantically. I didnt mean it, I dont mind 

her  er, hello, Myrtle. The squat ghost of a girl had glided over. She had the glummest 
face Harry had ever seen, half-hidd
en behind lank hair and thick, 
pearly spectacles. What? she said sulkily. How are you, Myrtle? said Herm
ione in a falsely bright voice. 
Its nice to see you out of the toilet. 
Myrtle sniffed. 
Miss Granger was just talking ab
out you  said Peeves slyly 
in Myrtles ear. 
Just saying  saying  how nice you look tonight, said Her-
mione, glaring at Peeves. 
Myrtle eyed Hermione suspiciously. 

Youre making fun of me, she sa
id, silver tears welling rapidly in her small, see-through eyes. 
 THE  DEATHDAY  PARTY  135  No  honestly  didnt I just say how nice Myrtles looking? 
said Hermione, nudging Harry and Ron painfully in the ribs. 
Oh, yeah  She did  
Dont lie to me, Myrtle ga
sped, tears now flooding down her face, while Peeves chuckled happ
ily over her sh
oulder. Dyou think I dont know what people ca
ll me behind my back? Fat Myr-
tle! Ugly Myrtle! Miserable, moaning, moping Myrtle! 
Youve forgotten pimply, Pe
eves hissed in her ear. 
Moaning Myrtle burst into anguished sobs and fled from the 
dungeon. Peeves shot after her, pelting her with moldy peanuts, 
yelling, Pimply! Pimply
! Oh, dear, said Hermione sadly. 
Nearly Headless Nick now drifted toward them through the 
crowd. Enjoying yourselves? 
Oh, yes, they lied. Not a bad turnout, said Nearly Headless Nick proudly. The Wailing Widow came all the way up from Kent. . . . Its nearly time 
for my speech, Id be
tter go and warn the orchestra. . . . 
The orchestra, however, stoppe
d playing at that very moment. 
They, and everyone else in the dung
eon, fell silent, looking around 
in excitement, as a hunting horn sounded. 
Oh, here we go, said Nearly Headless Nick bitterly. 
Through the dungeon wall burst a dozen ghost horses, each 
ridden by a headless horseman. The assembly clapped wildly; 
Harry started to clap, too, but stopped quickly at the sight of Nicks face.  CHAPTER  EIGHT  136  The horses galloped into the 
middle of the dance floor and halted, rearing and plunging. At th
e front of the pack was a large 
ghost who held his bearded head under his arm, from which posi-
tion he was blowing the horn. The ghost leapt down, lifted his 
head high in the air so he could see over the crowd (everyone 
laughed), and strode over to Nearly Headless Nick, squashing his 
head back onto his neck. 
Nick! he roared. How are you? Head still hanging in there? He gave a hearty guffaw and clapped Nearly Headless Nick on 
the shoulder. Welcome, Patrick, said Nick stiffly. 

Live uns! said Sir Patrick, spotting Harry, Ron, and Hermione and giving a huge, fake jump of as
tonishment, so that his head fell off again (the crowd howled with laughter). 
Very amusing, said Nearly Headless Nick darkly. 
Dont mind Nick! shouted Sir Patricks head from the floor. 
Still upset we wont let him join
 the Hunt! But I mean to say  
look at the fellow  
I think, said Harry hurriedly, at a meaningful look from Nick, 
Nicks very  fright
ening and  er  
Ha! yelled Sir Patricks head. Bet he asked you to say that! 

If I could have everyones attent
ion, its time for my speech! 
said Nearly Headless Nick loudly, striding toward the podium and 

climbing into an ic
y blue spotlight. 
My late lamented lords, ladies, 
and gentlemen, it is my great 
sorrow . . . 
But nobody heard much more. Si
r Patrick and the rest of the Headless Hunt had just started 
a game of Head Hockey and the 
crowd were turning to watch. Nearly Headless Nick tried vainly to 
THE  DEATHDAY  PARTY  137  recapture his audience, but gave up 
as Sir Patricks head went sail-
ing past him to loud cheers. 
Harry was very cold by no
w, not to mention hungry. 
I cant stand much more of this
, Ron muttered, 
his teeth chat-tering, as the orchestra ground back into action and the ghosts 
swept back onto the dance floor. 
Lets go, Harry agreed. 
They backed toward the door, nodding and beaming at anyone who looked at them, and a minute later were hurrying back up the passageway full of black candles. Pudding might not be finished yet, said Ron hopefully, lead-
ing the way toward the steps to the entrance hall. 
And then Harry heard it. . . . rip
 . . . tear
 . . . kill
 . . . It was the same voice, the same
 cold, murderous voice he had 
heard in Lockharts office. 
He stumbled to a halt, clutching 
at the stone wall, listening with 
all his might, looking around, sq
uinting up and down the dimly lit passageway. Harry, whatre you  ? Its that voice again  shut up a minute  . . . soo hungry . . . for so long
 . . . Listen! said Harry urgently, and Ron and Hermione froze, 
watching him. . . . kill . . . time to kill
 . . . The voice was growing fainter. Harry was sure it was moving 
away  moving upward. A mixture of fear and excitement gripped 
him as he stared at the dark ceil
ing; how could it be moving up-
ward? Was it a phantom, to whom stone ceilings didnt matter? 
CHAPTER  EIGHT  138  This way, he shouted, and he began to run, up the stairs, into 
the entrance hall. It was no good hoping to hear anything here, the babble of talk from the Halloween feast was echoing out of the 
Great Hall. Harry sprinted up the ma
rble staircase to the first floor, 
Ron and Hermione clattering behind him. 
Harry, whatre we  SHH! 
Harry strained his ears. Distantly, from the floor above, and 
growing fainter still, he heard the voice: . . . 
I smell blood. . . . I SMELL BLOOD! His stomach lurched  
Its going to kill someone! he 
shouted, and ignoring Rons and 
Hermiones bewildered faces, he ran up the next flight of steps 

three at a time, trying to listen 
over his own pounding footsteps  
Harry hurtled around the whole of the second floor, Ron and 
Hermione panting behind him, not stopping until they turned a 

corner into the last, deserted passage. 
Harry, 
what was that all about? said 
Ron, wiping sweat off his 
face. I couldnt he
ar anything. . . . But Hermione gave a sudden gasp, pointing down the corridor. 
Look! Something was shining on the wall ahead. They approached 
slowly, squinting through the dark
ness. Foot-high words had been 
daubed on the wall between two windows, shimmering in the light cast by the flaming torches. 
 THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS HAS BEEN 
OPENED. ENEMIES OF 
THE HEIR, BEWARE.  THE  DEATHDAY  PARTY  139  Whats that thing  hanging unde
rneath? said Ron, a slight quiver in his voice. 
As they edged nearer, Harry almo
st slipped  there was a large 
puddle of water on the floor; Ron and Hermione grabbed him, and they inched toward the message, ey
es fixed on a dark shadow be-neath it. All three of them realized what it was at once, and leapt 
backward with a splash. 
Mrs. Norris, the caretakers cat, was hanging by her tail from the 
torch bracket. She was stiff as a board, her eyes wide and staring. 
For a few seconds, they didnt 
move. Then Ron said, Lets get out of here. 
Shouldnt we try and help 
 Harry began awkwardly. 
Trust me, said Ron. We dont want to be found here. 
But it was too late. A rumble, as 
though of distant thunder, told 
them that the feast had just ended
. From either end of the corridor 
where they stood came the sound of hundreds of feet climbing the 
stairs, and the loud, happy talk of well-fed people; next moment, 
students were crashing into 
the passage from both ends. 
The chatter, the bustle, the noise died suddenly as the people in 
front spotted the hanging cat. Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood alone, in the middle of the corrid
or, as silence fell among the mass 
of students pressing forward to see the grisly sight. 
Then someone shouted through the quiet. 

Enemies of the Heir, beware! Youll be next, Mudbloods! 

It was Draco Malfoy. He had pushed to the 
front of the crowd, his cold eyes alive, his usually blo
odless face flushed, as he grinned 
at the sight of the hanging, immobile cat. 
C H A P T E R  N I N E   140  THE WRITING 
ON THE WALL 
  hats going on here? Whats going on? 
Attracted no doubt by Malfoys shout, Argus Filch came shouldering his way through the crowd. Then he saw Mrs. 
Norris and fell back, clut
ching his face in horror. My cat! My cat! Whats happened
 to Mrs. Norris? he shrieked. 
And his popping eyes fell on Harry. 
You! he screeched. You
! Youve murdered my 
cat! Youve killed 
her! Ill kill you! Ill  Argus! Dumbledore had arrived on the scene, followed by a number of 
other teachers. In seconds, he had swept past Harry, Ron, and Hermione and detached Mrs. Norris from the torch bracket. 
Come with me, Argus, he said to
 Filch. You, too, Mr. Potter, 
Mr. Weasley, Miss Granger. 
Lockhart stepped forward eagerly. 
 W THE  WRITING  ON  THE  WALL  141  My office is nearest, Headmaster  just upstairs  please feel free  Thank you, Gilderoy
, said Dumbledore. 
The silent crowd parted to let 
them pass. Lockhart, looking ex-cited and important, hurried afte
r Dumbledore; so did Professors 
McGonagall and Snape. 
As they entered Lockharts darken
ed office there was a flurry of movement across the walls; Harry 
saw several of the Lockharts in 
the pictures dodging out of sight, their hair in rollers. The real Lockhart lit the candles on his desk and stood back. Dumbledore 
laid Mrs. Norris on the polished surface and began to examine her. 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged tense looks and sank into 
chairs outside the pool of candlelight, watching. 
The tip of Dumbledores long, crooked nose was barely an inch 
from Mrs. Norriss fur. He was looking at her closely through his 
half-moon spectacles, his long fingers gently prodding and poking. Professor McGonagall was bent almost as close, her eyes narrowed. 
Snape loomed behind them, half 
in shadow, wearing a most pecu-
liar expression: It was as though he was trying hard not to smile. 
And Lockhart was hovering around
 all of them, making sugges-tions. 
It was definitely a curse that killed her  probably the Trans-
mogrifian Torture  Ive seen it used many times, so unlucky I 
wasnt there, I know the very countercurse that would have saved 

her. . . . Lockharts comments were punctuated by Filchs dry, racking sobs. He was slumped in a chair by the desk, unable to look at Mrs. 

Norris, his face in his hands. Much
 as he detested Filch, Harry   CHAPTER  NINE  142  couldnt help feeling a bit sorry fo
r him, though not nearly as sorry 
as he felt for himself. If Dumbledore believed Filch, he would be 
expelled for sure. 
Dumbledore was now muttering strange words under his breath 
and tapping Mrs. Norris with his wand but nothing happened: She continued to look as though she had been recently stuffed. 
. . . I remember something very similar happening in Oua-
gadogou, said Lockhart, a series of attacks, 
the full storys in my 
autobiography, I was able to pr
ovide the townsfolk with various 
amulets, which cleared the ma
tter up at once. . . . The photographs of Lockhart on the walls were all nodding in agreement as he talked. One of them had forgotten to remove his 
hair net. 
At last Dumbledore straightened up. 

Shes not dead, Argus, he said softly. 
Lockhart stopped abruptly in the middle of counting the num-ber of murders he had prevented. 
Not dead? choked Filch, looking through his fingers at Mrs. 
Norris. But whys she all  all stiff and frozen? She has been Petrified, said Dumbledore (Ah! I thought so! 
said Lockhart). But how,
 I cannot say. . . . Ask him! shrieked Filch, turning his blotched and tearstained 
face to Harry. No second year could have done this, said Dumbledore firmly. It would take Dark Magic of the most advanced  
He did it, he did it! Filch spat, his pouchy face purpling. You 
saw what he wrote on the wall! He found  in my office  he 
knows Im a  Im a  Filchs face worked horribly. He knows Im a Squib! he finished. 
THE  WRITING  ON  THE  WALL  143  I never touched
 Mrs. Norris! Harry said loudly, uncomfortably aware of everyone looking at him
, including all the Lockharts on 
the walls. And I dont 
even know what a Squib 
is. Rubbish! snarled Filch. H
e saw my Kwikspell letter! 
If I might speak, Headmaster, 
said Snape from the shadows, 
and Harrys sense of foreboding increased; he was sure nothing 
Snape had to say was go
ing to do him any good. 
Potter and his friends may have 
simply been in the wrong place 
at the wrong time, he said, a slight sneer curling his mouth as 
though he doubted it. But we do have a set of suspicious circum-stances here. Why was he in the upstairs corridor at all? Why wasnt 
he at the Halloween feast? 
Harry, Ron and Hermione all la
unched into an explanation 
about the deathday party. . . . there were hundreds of ghosts, 
theyll tell you we were there  
But why not join the feast afterward? said Snape, his black eyes 
glittering in the candlelight. Why go up to that corridor? 
Ron and Hermione lo
oked at Harry. Because  because  Harry said, his heart thumping very 
fast; something told him it woul
d sound very far-fetched if he told them he had been led there 
by a bodiless voice no one but he 
could hear, because we were tire
d and wanted to go to bed, he said. Without any supper? said Snape, a triumphant smile flicker-
ing across his gaunt face. I didnt 
think ghosts provided food fit for living people at their parties. 
We werent hungry, said Ron loudly as his stomach gave a huge 
rumble. Snapes nasty smile widened. 
CHAPTER  NINE  144  I suggest, Headmaster, that Po
tter is not being 
entirely truth-ful, he said. It might be a good idea if he were deprived of certain privileges until he is ready to te
ll us the whole stor
y. I personally 
feel he should be taken off the Gr
yffindor Quidditch team until he is ready to be honest. 
Really, Severus, said Professor 
McGonagall sharply, I see no 
reason to stop the boy playing Quidditch. This cat wasnt hit over 
the head with a broomstick. There is
 no evidence at all that Potter has done anything wrong. Dumbledore was giving Harry a searching look. His twinkling light-blue gaze made Harry feel as though he were being X-rayed. 
Innocent until proven guilty
, Severus, he said firmly. Snape looked furious. So did Filch. 
My cat has been Petrified! he shrieked, his eyes popping. I 
want to see some 
punishment
! We will be able to cure her, Argus, said Dumbledore patiently. 
Professer Sprout recently mana
ged to procure some Mandrakes. 
As soon as they have reached their full size, I will have a potion 
made that will revive Mrs. Norris. 
Ill make it, Lockhart butted in
. I must have done it a hun-
dred times. I could whip up a Mandrake Restorative Draught in 
my sleep  
Excuse me, said Snape icily. But I believe I am the Potions 
master at this school. 
There was a very awkward pause. 
You may go, Dumbledore said 
to Harry, Ron, and Hermione. 
They went, as quickly as they could without actually running. 
When they were a floor up from Lock
harts office, they
 turned into   THE  WRITING  ON  THE  WALL  145  an empty classroom and closed the door quietly behind them. Harry squinted at his friends darkened faces. 
Dyou think I should have told 
them about that voice I heard? 
No, said Ron, without hesitation
. Hearing voices no one else can hear isnt a good sign, ev
en in the wizarding world. Something in Rons voice made Harry ask, You do believe me, 
dont you? 
Course I do, said Ron quickly. But  you must admit its 
weird. . . . 
I know its weird, said Harry. The whole things weird. 
What was that writing on the wa
ll about? The Chamber Has Been 
Opened. . . . Whats th
at supposed to mean? You know, it rings a sort of bell, said Ron slowly. I think 
someone told me a story about a secret chamber at Hogwarts 
once . . . mightve been Bill. . . . And what on earths 
a Squib? said Harry. To his surprise, Ron stifled a snigger. 

Well  its not funny really  but as its Filch, he said. A 
Squib is someone who was born into
 a wizarding family but hasnt 
got any magic powers. Kind of th
e opposite of Muggle-born wiz-
ards, but Squibs are quite unusual. 
If Filchs trying to learn magic 
from a Kwikspell course, I reckon he
 must be a Squib. It would ex-plain a lot. Like why he hates st
udents so much. Ron gave a satis-
fied smile. Hes bitter. 
A clock chimed somewhere. 

Midnight, said Harry. Wed better get to bed before Snape 
comes along and tries to frame us for something else. 
*    *    * CHAPTER  NINE  146  For a few days, the school could talk of little else but the attack on 
Mrs. Norris. Filch kept it fresh in
 everyones minds by pacing the 
spot where she had been attacked
, as though he 
thought the at-tacker might come back. Harry ha
d seen him scrubbing the mes-
sage on the wall with Mrs. Skowers All-Purpose Magical Mess 
Remover, but to no ef
fect; the words still gleamed as brightly as 
ever on the stone. When Filch wa
snt guarding the scene of the 
crime, he was skulking red-eyed 
through the corridors, lunging out 
at unsuspecting students and trying to put them in detention for 
things like breathing loudly and looking happy. Ginny Weasley seemed very distur
bed by Mrs. Norriss fate. Ac-
cording to Ron, she was a great cat lover. 
But you havent really got to 
know Mrs. Norris, Ron told her bracingly. Honestly, were much
 better off without her. Ginnys 
lip trembled. Stuff like this doe
snt often happen at Hogwarts, 
Ron assured her. Theyll catch the maniac who did it and have 
him out of here in no time. I just 
hope hes got time to Petrify Filch 
before hes expelled. Im only 
joking  Ron added hastily as 
Ginny blanched. The attack had also had an effect on Hermione. It was quite 
usual for Hermione to spend a lot 
of time reading, but she was now 
doing almost nothing else. Nor co
uld Harry and Ron get much re-sponse from her when they asked what she was up to, and not un-
til the following Wednesday did they find out. 
Harry had been held back in Potions, where Snape had made 
him stay behind to scrape tubewo
rms off the desks. After a hurried 
lunch, he went upstairs to meet
 Ron in the library, and saw Jus-
tin Finch-Fletchley, the Hufflepuff boy from Herbology, coming   THE  WRITING  ON  THE  WALL  147  toward him. Harry had just opened
 his mouth to say hello when 
Justin caught sight of him, turned abruptly, and sped off in the op-
posite direction. 
Harry found Ron at the back of the library, measuring his His-tory of Magic homework. Professor Binns had asked for a three-

foot-long composition on The Medieval Assembly of European Wizards. I dont believe it, Im still eight 
inches short. . . . said Ron fu-riously, letting go of his parchmen
t, which sprang back into a roll. 
And Hermiones done four feet se
ven inches and her writings 
tiny.
 Where is she? asked Harry, grabbing the tape measure and un-rolling his own homework. 
Somewhere over there, said Ro
n, pointing along the shelves. Looking for another book. I think shes trying to read the whole 

library before Christmas. 
Harry told Ron about Justin Finc
h-Fletchley running away from 
him. Dunno why you care. I thought he was a bit of an idiot, said 
Ron, scribbling away, making his wr
iting as large as possible. All 
that junk about Lockha
rt being so great  
Hermione emerged from between 
the bookshelves. She looked irritable and at last seemed ready to talk to them. 
All the copies of Hogwarts, A History have been taken out, she 
said, sitting down next to Harry and Ron. And theres a two-week waiting list. I 
wish I hadnt left my copy at home, but I couldnt fit 
it in my trunk 
with all the Lockhart books. 
Why do you want it? said Harry. 
 CHAPTER  NINE  148  The same reason everyone else wants it, said Hermione, to 
read up on the legend of
 the Chamber of Secrets. 
Whats that? said Harry quickly. 
Thats just it. I cant remember,
 said Hermione, biting her lip. 
And I cant find the st
ory anywhere else  
Hermione, let me read your 
composition, said Ron desper-
ately, checking his watch. No, I wont, said Hermione, 
suddenly severe. Youve had ten days to finish it  I only need another tw
o inches, come on  

The bell rang. Ron and Hermione led the way to History of 
Magic, bickering. 
History of Magic was the dullest subject on their schedule. Pro-fessor Binns, who taught it, was their only ghost teacher, and the 
most exciting thing that ever happ
ened in his classes was his enter-
ing the room through the blackboard. Ancient and shriveled, many people said he hadnt noticed he 
was dead. He had simply got up to 
teach one day and left his body behi
nd him in an armchair in front 
of the staffroom fire; his routine 
had not varied in
 the slightest 
since. Today was as boring as ever. Professor Binns opened his notes 
and began to read in a flat drone like an old vacuum cleaner until nearly everyone in the class was in 
a deep stupor, occasionally com-
ing to long enough to copy down a name or date, then falling 
asleep again. He had been speaki
ng for half an hour when some-
thing happened that had never ha
ppened before. Hermione put up 
her hand. 
Professor Binns, glancing up in 
the middle of a deadly dull lec- 
 THE  WRITING  ON  THE  WALL  149  ture on the International Warlock Convention of 1289, looked 
amazed. Miss  er  ? Granger, Professor. I was wond
ering if you could tell us any-
thing about the Chamber of Secrets, said Hermione in a clear 

voice. Dean Thomas, who ha
d been sitting with his mouth hanging 
open, gazing out of the window, jerked out of his trance; Lavender 

Browns head came up off her ar
ms and Neville Longbottoms el-
bow slipped off his desk. 
Professor Binns blinked. 

My subject is History of Magic, he said in his dry, wheezy 
voice. I deal with, 
facts, Miss Granger, not myths and legends. He cleared his throat with a small noise like chalk snapping and con-tinued, In September of that year, a subcommittee of Sardinian 

sorcerers  
He stuttered to a halt. Hermione
s hand was waving in the air 
again. Miss Grant? Please, sir, dont legends always have a basis in fact? 
Professor Binns was looking at 
her in such amazement, Harry 
was sure no student had ever inte
rrupted him before, alive or dead. 
Well, said Professor Binns slowly, yes, one could argue that, I 
suppose. He peered at Hermione as though he had never seen a 
student properly before. However
, the legend of which you speak 
is such a very sensational,
 even 
ludicrous
 tale  But the whole class was now hanging on Professor Binnss every 
word. He looked dimly at them all,
 every face turned to his. Harry  
 CHAPTER  NINE  150  could tell he was completely thrown by such an unusual show of 
interest. 
Oh, very well, he said slowly. Let me see . . . the Chamber of 
Secrets . . . 
You all know, of course, that Hogwarts was founded over a thousand years ago  the precise date is uncertain  by the four 
greatest witches and wizards of the age. The four school Houses are named after them: Godric Gryffindor, Helga Hufflepuff, Rowena Ravenclaw, and Salazar Slytherin. They built 
this castle together, far from prying Muggle eyes, fo
r it was an age when magic was 
feared by common people, and witches and wizards suffered much 
persecution. He paused, gazed blea
rily around the room, and continued. For a few years, the founders worked in harmony together, 
seeking out youngsters who showed signs of magic and bringing 
them to the castle to be educated. But then disagreements sprang 
up between them. A rift began to grow between Slytherin and the 
others. Slytherin wished to be more 
selective about the students ad-
mitted to Hogwarts. He believed 
that magical learning should be 
kept within all-magic families. He
 disliked taking students of Mug-gle parentage, believing them to be untrustworthy. After a while, 
there was a serious argument on the subject between Slytherin and 
Gryffindor, and Slytherin left the school. 
Professor Binns paused again, pursing his lips, looking like a 
wrinkled old tortoise. Reliable historical sources tell us 
this much, he said. But these 
honest facts have been obscured 
by the fanciful legend of the 

Chamber of Secrets. The story goes that Slytherin had built a  
 THE  WRITING  ON  THE  WALL  151  hidden chamber in the castle, of 
which the other founders knew 
nothing. Slytherin, according to the lege
nd, sealed the Chamber of Se-
crets so that none would be able to
 open it until hi
s own true heir 
arrived at the school. The heir al
one would be able to unseal the 
Chamber of Secrets, un
leash the horror within, and use it to purge 
the school of all who were 
unworthy to study magic. 
There was silence as he finished te
lling the story, but it wasnt the 
usual, sleepy silence that filled Professor Binnss classes. There was 
unease in the air as everyone continued to watch him, hoping for 
more. Professor Binns looked faintly annoyed. 
The whole thing is arrant nonsense, of course, he said. Natu-
rally, the school has been searched 
for evidence of such a chamber, 
many times, by the most learned witches and wizards. It does not 
exist. A tale told to frighten the gullible. 
Hermiones hand was back in the air. 
Sir  what exactly do you mean
 by the horror within the Chamber? 
That is believed to be some sort
 of monster, which the Heir of Slytherin alone can control, said 
Professor Binns in his dry, reedy 
voice. The class exchanged nervous looks. 
I tell you, the thing does not ex
ist, said Professor Binns, shuf-
fling his notes. There is 
no Chamber and no monster. 
But, sir, said Seamus Finnigan, if the Chamber can only be 
opened by Slytherins true heir, no one else 
would
 be able to find it, 
would they? Nonsense, OFlaherty, said Professor Binns in an aggravated  
 CHAPTER  NINE  152  tone. If a long succession of Hogwarts headmasters and head-
mistresses havent found the thing  
But, Professor, piped up Parvati 
Patil, youd probably have to 
use Dark Magic to open it  
Just because a wizard 
doesnt
 use Dark Magic doesnt mean he 
cant,
 Miss Pennyfeather, snapped Professor Binns. I repeat, if the likes of Dumbledore  
But maybe youve got to be re
lated to Slytherin, so Dumble-
dore couldnt  began Dean Thomas, but Professor Binns had 

had enough. That will do, he said sharply. It is a myth! It does not exist! 
There is not a shred of evidence th
at Slytherin ever built so much 
as a secret broom cupboard! I regret telling you such a foolish story! 
We will return, if you please, to 
history,
 to solid, believable, verifi-
able fact
! And within five minutes, the class had sunk back into its usual 
torpor.  I always knew Salazar Slytherin 
was a twisted old loony, Ron told Harry and Hermione as they fought their way through the teeming corridors at the end of the lesson 
to drop off their bags before 
dinner. But I never knew he star
ted all this pure-blood stuff. I 
wouldnt be in his House if you 
paid me. Honestly, if the Sorting Hat had tried to put me in Slytheri
n, Idve got the train straight 
back home. . . . 
Hermione nodded fervently, but 
Harry didnt say anything. His 
stomach had just dropped unpleasantly. Harry had never told Ron and Hermione that the Sorting Hat  
 THE  WRITING  ON  THE  WALL  153  had seriously considered putting 
him in Slytherin. He could re-
member, as though it were yester
day, the small voice that had spo-
ken in his ear when hed placed the hat on his head a year before: 
You could be great, you know, its all here in your head, and Slytherin 
would help you on the way to greatness, no doubt about that.
 . . . But Harry, who had already heard of Slytherin Houses reputa-
tion for turning out Dark wizards, had thought desperately, 
Not 
Slytherin! and the hat had said, Oh, well, if youre sure
 . . . better be Gryffindor.
 . . . As they were shunted along in the throng, Colin Creevey went 
past. Hiya, Harry! 
Hullo, Colin, said Harry automatically. 
Harry  Harry  a boy in my cla
ss has been saying youre  

But Colin was so small he couldnt fight against the tide of 
people bearing him toward the Great Hall; they heard him squeak, 
See you, Harry! 
and he was gone. 
Whats a boy in his class saying about you? Hermione won-
dered. That Im Slytherins heir, I ex
pect, said Harry, his stomach dropping another inch or so as he suddenly remembered the way 

Justin Finch-Fletchley had run 
away from him at lunchtime. 
People herell believe anythin
g, said Ron in disgust. 
The crowd thinned and they were able to climb the next stair-
case without difficulty. 
Dyou really think theres a Chamber of Secrets? Ron asked 
Hermione. 
I dont know, she said, frowning. Dumbledore couldnt cure  
 CHAPTER  NINE  154  Mrs. Norris, and that makes me think that whatever attacked her 
might not be  well  human. 
As she spoke, they turned a corner and found themselves at the 
end of the very corridor where the attack had happened. They stopped and looked. The scene was just as it had been that night, except that there was no stiff ca
t hanging from th
e torch bracket, 
and an empty chair stood against the wall bearing the message 
The Chamber of Secret
s Has Been Opened. 
Thats where Filch has been 
keeping guard, Ron muttered. 
They looked at each other.
 The corridor was deserted. Cant hurt to have a poke around, said Harry, dropping his 
bag and getting to his hands and 
knees so that he could crawl 
along, searching for clues. 
Scorch marks! he said. Here  and here  

Come and look at this! said Hermione. This is funny. . . . 
Harry got up and crossed to the window next to the message 
on the wall. Hermione was pointi
ng at the topmost pane, where 
around twenty spiders were scuttling, apparently fighting to get 
through a small crack. A long, silvery thread was dangling like a 
rope, as though they ha
d all climbed it in their hurry to get outside. 
Have you ever seen spiders act li
ke that? said Hermione won-deringly. No, said Harry, have you, Ron? Ron? 
He looked over his shoulder. Ron was standing well back and 
seemed to be fighting the impulse to run. 
Whats up? said Harry. 
I  dont  like  spid
ers, said Ron tensely. 
I never knew that, said Hermio
ne, looking at Ron in surprise. 
Youve used spiders in Poti
ons loads of times. . . . 
THE  WRITING  ON  THE  WALL  155  I dont mind them dead, said
 Ron, who was carefully look-
ing anywhere but at the window. I just dont like the way they 
move. . . . 
Hermione giggled. 
Its not funny, said Ron, fier
cely. If you must know, when I 
was three, Fred turned my  my te
ddy bear into a great big filthy 
spider because I broke his toy broomstick. . . . You wouldnt like 

them either if youd been holding your bear and suddenly it had 
too many legs and . . . He broke off, shuddering. Hermione was obviously still trying 
not to laugh. Feeling they had better get off the subject, Harry said, 
Remember all that water on the 
floor? Where did that come from? Someones mopped it up. 
It was about here, said Ron, re
covering himself to walk a few 
paces past Filchs chair and pointing. Level with this door. He reached for the brass doorknob but suddenly withdrew his hand as though hed been burned. 
Whats the matter? said Harry. 
Cant go in there, said Ron gr
uffly. Thats a girls toilet. 
Oh, Ron, there wont be anyo
ne in there, said Hermione, 
standing up and coming over. Thats Moaning Myrtles place. 
Come on, lets have a look. 
And ignoring the large 
out of order
 sign, she opened the door. 
It was the gloomiest, most depressing bathroom Harry had ever set foot in. Under a large, cracke
d, and spotted mirror were a row 
of chipped sinks. The floor was damp and reflected the dull light 
given off by the stubs of a few ca
ndles, burning low in their hold-
ers; the wooden doors to the stalls
 were flaking and scratched and one of them was dangling off its hinges. 
CHAPTER  NINE  156  Hermione put her fingers to her lips and set off toward the end 
stall. When she reached it she sa
id, Hello, Myrtle, how are you? Harry and Ron went to look. Moaning Myrtle was floating above the tank of the toilet, picking a spot on her chin. 
This is a girls
 bathroom, she said, eyeing Ron and Harry sus-
piciously. Theyre
 not girls. 
No, Hermione agreed. I just wanted to show them how  
er  nice it is in here. 
She waved vaguely at the dirty 
old mirror and the damp floor. Ask her if she saw anything, Harry mouthed at Hermione. 
What are you whispering? sa
id Myrtle, staring at him. 
Nothing, said Harry quickly. We wanted to ask  
I wish people would stop talkin
g behind my back! said Myrtle, in a voice choked with tears. I 
do have feelings, you know, even if 
I am dead  Myrtle, no one wants to upse
t you, said Hermione. Harry 
only  No one wants to upset me! Thats a good one! howled Myrtle. 
My life was nothing but misery at this place and now people come 
along ruining my death! 
We wanted to ask you if youve seen anything funny lately, 
said Hermione quickly. Because 
a cat was attacked right outside 
your front door on Halloween. Did you see anyone near here
 that night? said Harry. 
I wasnt paying attention, said Myrtle dramatically. Peeves 
upset me so much I came in here and tried to 
kill myself. Then, of 
course, I remembered that Im  that Im  
Already dead, said Ron helpfully. 
 THE  WRITING  ON  THE  WALL  157  Myrtle gave a tragic sob, rose up in the air, turned over, and 
dived headfirst into the toilet, splashing water all over them and 
vanishing from sight, although fr
om the direction of her muffled sobs, she had come to rest somewhere in the U-bend. 
Harry and Ron stood with their mouths open, but Hermione shrugged wearily and said, Honestly, that was almost cheerful for 
Myrtle. . . . Come on, lets go. 
Harry had barely closed the door on Myrtles gurgling sobs when a loud voice made all three of them jump. 
RON! 

Percy Weasley had stopped dead at
 the head of the stairs, prefect 
badge agleam, an expression of complete shock on his face. 
Thats a 
girls
 bathroom! he gasped. What were 
you  ? 
Just having a look around,
 Ron shrugged. Clues, you 
know  
Percy swelled in a manner that reminded Harry forcefully of 
Mrs. Weasley. 
Get  away  from  there 
 Percy said, striding toward 
them and starting to bustle them along, flapping his arms. Dont 
you care what this looks like? Coming 
back here while everyones at dinner  Why shouldnt we be here? sa
id Ron hotly, stopping short and 
glaring at Percy. Listen, we never laid a 
finger on that cat! 
Thats what I told Ginny, said
 Percy fiercely, but she still seems to think youre going to be
 expelled, Ive never seen her so 
upset, crying her eyes out, you might think of 
her, all the first years 
are thoroughly overexcited by this business  
You dont care about Ginny, said Ron, whose ears were now  
 CHAPTER  NINE  158  reddening. Youre
 just worried Im going to mess up your chances 
of being Head Boy  Five points from Gryffindor! Percy said tersely, fingering his 
prefect badge. And I hope it 
teaches you a lesson! No more 
detec-
tive work,
 or Ill write to Mum! 
And he strode off, the back of his neck as red as Rons ears. 
 Harry, Ron, and Hermione chose seats as far as possible from Percy in the common room that night. Ron was still in a very bad tem-
per and kept blotting his Charms homework. When he reached 

absently for his wand to remove the smudges, it ignited the parch-

ment. Fuming almost as much as his homework, Ron slammed The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 2
 shut. To Harrys surprise, 
Hermione followed suit. 
Who can it be, though? she said in a quiet voice, as though 
continuing a conversation they 
had just been having. Whod 
want 
to frighten all the Squibs and 
Muggle-borns out of Hogwarts? 
Lets think, said Ron in mock
 puzzlement. Who do we know who thinks Muggle-b
orns are scum? He looked at Hermione. Hermione looked back, unconvinced. 
If youre talking 
about Malfoy  
Of course I am! said Ron. You heard him  
Youll be next, 
Mudbloods!  come on, youve only got to look at his foul rat face 
to know its him  
Malfoy, the Heir of Slytherin? said Hermione skeptically. 
Look at his family, said Harry, closing his books, too. The whole lot of them have been in 
Slytherin; hes always boasting 
about it. They could easily be Slytherins descendants. His fathers 
definitely evil enough. 
THE  WRITING  ON  THE  WALL  159  They couldve had the key to the Chamber of Secrets for cen-
turies! said Ron. Handing it down, father to son. . . . 
Well, said Hermione cautiously, 
I suppose its possible. . . . 
But how do we prove 
it? said Harry darkly. 
There might be a way, said 
Hermione slowly, dropping her 
voice still further with a quick glan
ce across the room at Percy. Of course, it would be difficult. An
d dangerous, very dangerous. Wed be breaking about fifty school rules, I expect  
If, in a month or so, you feel like explaining, you will let us 
know, wont you? said Ron irritably. 
All right, said Hermione coldly
. What wed need to do is to 
get inside the Slytherin common room and ask Malfoy a few ques-tions without him re
alizing its us. But thats impossible, Harry said as Ron laughed. 

No, its not, said Hermione. 
All wed need would be some 
Polyjuice Potion. 
Whats that? said Ron and Harry together. 

Snape mentioned it in class a few weeks ago  
Dyou think weve got nothing better to do in Potions than lis-
ten to Snape? muttered Ron. 
It transforms you into somebody
 else. Think about it! We could 
change into three of the Slytheri
ns. No one would know it was us. 
Malfoy would probably tell us an
ything. Hes probably boasting about it in the Slytherin common r
oom right now, if only we could hear him. This Polyjuice stuff sounds a bit dodgy to me, said Ron, frowning. What if we were stuck looking like three of the 
Slytherins forever? It wears off after a while, said Hermione, waving her hand 
CHAPTER  NINE  160  impatiently. But getting hold of the recipe will be very difficult. 
Snape said it was in a book called 
Moste Potente Potions and its bound to be in the Restrict
ed Section of the library. 
There was only one way to get ou
t a book from the Restricted Section: You needed a 
signed note of permission from a teacher. 
Hard to see why wed want the b
ook, really, said Ron, if we werent going to try and make one of the potions. 
I think, said Hermione, that if
 we made it sound as though we were just interested in the theo
ry, we might stand a chance. . . . 
Oh, come on, no teachers going 
to fall for that, said Ron. 
Theyd have to be really thick. . . . 
C H A P T E R  T E N   161  THE ROGUE BLUDGER 
   ince the disastrous episode of the pixies, Professor Lockhart 
had not brought live creatures to class. Instead, he read passages 
from his books to them, and so
metimes reenacted some of the 
more dramatic bits. He
 usually picked Harry to help him with 
these reconstructions; so far, Harry had been 
forced to play a sim-
ple Transylvanian villager whom Lockhart ha
d cured of a Babbling 
Curse, a yeti with a head cold, and a vampire who had been unable to eat anything except lettuce si
nce Lockhart had dealt with him. 
Harry was hauled to the front of the class during their very next Defense Against the Dark Arts less
on, this time acting a werewolf. If he hadnt had a very good reason
 for keeping Lockhart in a good mood, he would have refused to do it. Nice loud howl, Harry  exactl
y  and then, if youll believe 
it, I pounced  like this  
slammed him to the floor  thus  
with one hand, I managed to hold him down  with my other, I  
 S CHAPTER  TEN  162  put my wand to his throat  I then screwed up my remain-
ing strength and performed th
e immensely complex Homorphus 
Charm  he let out a piteous mo
an  go on, Harry  higher than that  good  the fur vanished  the fangs shrank  and he turned back into a man. Simple, yet effective  and another 
village will remember me forever 
as the hero who delivered them from the monthly terror 
of werewolf attacks. 
The bell rang and Lockhart got to his feet. 
Homework  compose a poem ab
out my defeat of the Wagga 
Wagga Werewolf! Signed copies of 
Magical Me to the author of the 
best one! The class began to leave. Harry 
returned to the back of the room, where Ron and Hermione were waiting. 
Ready? Harry muttered. 
Wait till everyones gone, said Hermione nervously. All 
right . . . She approached Lockharts desk, a 
piece of paper clutched tightly in her hand, Harry and 
Ron right behind her. 
Er  Professor Lockhart? Hermione stammered. I wanted 
to  to get this book out of the 
library. Just for background read-ing. She held out the piece of pa
per, her hand shaking slightly. 
But the thing is, its in the Restricted Section of the library, so I 
need a teacher to sign for it  Im sure it would help me under-
stand what you say in Gadding with Ghouls
 about slow-acting ven-oms  Ah, Gadding with Ghouls
! said Lockhart, taking the note from 
Hermione and smiling widely at 
her. Possibly my very favorite 
book. You enjoyed it? 
 THE  ROGUE  BLUDGER  163  Oh, yes, said Hermione eage
rly. So clever, the way you trapped that last one wi
th the tea-strainer  Well, Im sure no one will mind me giving the best student of 
the year a little extra help, said 
Lockhart warmly, and he pulled out an enormous peacock quill. Yes, nice, isnt it? he said, misreading 
the revolted look on Rons face. I 
usually save it for book signings. 
He scrawled an enormous loopy signature on the note and 
handed it back to Hermione. 
So, Harry, said Lockhart, while Hermione folded the note 
with fumbling fingers and slipped it into her bag. Tomorrows the 
first Quidditch match of the season, I believe? Gryffindor against 

Slytherin, is it not? I hear youre a useful player. I was a Seeker, too. 
I was asked to try for the National
 Squad, but preferred to dedicate my life to the eradication of the Dark Forces. Still, if ever you feel the need for a little private training
, dont hesitate to ask. Always 
happy to pass on my expertise to less able players. . . . 
Harry made an indistinct noise 
in his throat and then hurried 
off after Ron and Hermione. 
I dont believe it, he said as
 the three of them examined the signature on the note. He didnt even 
look at the book we wanted. 
Thats because hes a brainless git, said Ron. But who cares, 
weve got what we needed  
He is not a brainless git, said Hermio
ne shrilly as they half ran 
toward the library. 
Just because he said you were the best student of the year  

They dropped their voices as th
ey entered the muffled stillness 
of the library. Madam Pince, the 
librarian, was a thin, irritable 
woman who looked like an underfed vulture. 

 CHAPTER  TEN  164  Moste Potente Potions? she repeated suspiciously, trying to take 
the note from Hermione; but Hermione wouldnt let go. 
I was wondering if I could keep
 it, she said breathlessly. Oh, come on, said Ron, wrenching it from her grasp and 
thrusting it at Madam Pince. Well get you another autograph. 
Lockhartll sign anything if it stands still long enough. Madam Pince held the note up to
 the light, as though deter-mined to detect a forgery, but it
 passed the test. She stalked away 
between the lofty shelves and returned seve
ral minutes later carry-ing a large and moldy-looking book. Hermione put it carefully into 
her bag and they left, trying not to walk too quickly or look too 

guilty. 
Five minutes later, they were barricaded in Moaning Myrtles out-of-order bathroom once agai
n. Hermione had overridden Rons 
objections by pointing out that it
 was the last place anyone in their 
right minds would go, so they we
re guaranteed some privacy. 
Moaning Myrtle was crying noisily in her stall, but they were ig-noring her, and she them. 
Hermione opened Moste Potente Potions
 carefully, and the three 
of them bent over the damp-spott
ed pages. It was clear from a 
glance why it belonged in the Rest
ricted Section. Some of the po-tions had effects almost too gruesome to think about, and there 
were some very unpleasant illustrations, which included a man 
who seemed to have been turned 
inside out and a witch sprouting several extra pairs of arms ou
t of her head. 
Here it is, said Hermione ex
citedly as she found the page 
headed The Polyjuice Potion.
 It was decorated with drawings of people halfway through transforming into other people. Harry sin- 
 THE  ROGUE  BLUDGER  165  cerely hoped the artist had imagined the looks of intense pain on 
their faces. 
This is the most complicated 
potion Ive ever seen, said 
Hermione as they scanned the re
cipe. Lacewing flies, leeches, 
fluxweed, and knotgrass, she murmured, running her finger down 
the list of ingredients. Well, th
eyre easy enough, theyre in the 
student store-cupboard, we can he
lp ourselves. . . . Oooh, look, 
powdered horn of a bicorn  dont know where were going to get 
that  shredded skin of a boomslang  that
ll be tricky, too  
and of course a bit of whoever we want to change into. 
Excuse me? said Ron sharply.
 What dyou mean, a bit of 
whoever were changing into? Im drinking nothing with Crabbes toenails in it  
Hermione continued as thou
gh she hadnt
 heard him. 
We dont have to worry about th
at yet, though, because we add those bits last. . . . Ron turned, speechless, to Harry, who had another worry. 
Dyou realize how mu
ch were going to have to steal, Her-
mione? Shredded skin of a boomslang, thats definitely not in the 
students cupboard. Whatre we goin
g to do, break into Snapes pri-
vate stores? I dont 
know if this is a good idea. . . . Hermione shut the 
book with a snap. 
Well, if you two are going to chicken out, fine, she said. There 
were bright pink patches on her 
cheeks and her eyes were brighter than usual. I dont want to break rules, you know. 
I think threat-ening Muggle-borns is far worse than brewing up a difficult po-tion. But if you dont want to find ou
t if its Malfoy, Ill go straight to Madam Pince now and hand
 the book back in  
 CHAPTER  TEN  166  I never thought Id see the day when youd be persuading us 
to break rules, said Ron. All ri
ght, well do it. But not toenails, 
okay? How long will it take to make, anyway? said Harry as Her-
mione, looking happier, 
opened the book again. 
Well, since the fluxweed has got 
to be picked at the full moon 
and the lacewings have got to be st
ewed for twenty-one days . . . Id 
say itd be ready in about a month, 
if we can get all the ingredients. A month? said Ron. Malfoy 
could have attacked half the 
Muggle-borns in the school by then! But Hermiones eyes nar-
rowed dangerously again, and he added swiftly, But its the best 
plan weve got, so full
 steam ahead, I say. 
However, while Hermione was chec
king that the coast was clear 
for them to leave the bathroom, Ron muttered to Harry, Itll be a 
lot less hassle if you can just 
knock Malfoy off his broom tomor-row.  Harry woke early on Saturday morning and lay for a while think-
ing about the coming Quidditch ma
tch. He was nervous, mainly at 
the thought of what Wood would say if Gryffindor lost, but also at 
the idea of facing a 
team mounted on the fastest racing brooms 
gold could buy. He had never wanted to beat Slytherin so badly. 
After half an hour of lying there with his insides churning, he got 
up, dressed, and went down to breakfast early, where he found the 
rest of the Gryffindor team huddled at the long, empty table, all 
looking uptight and not speaking much. 
As eleven oclock approached, the 
whole school started to make 
its way down to the Quidditch stadiu
m. It was a muggy sort of day  
 THE  ROGUE  BLUDGER  167  with a hint of thunder in the air. Ron and Hermione came hurry-
ing over to wish Harry good luck as he entered the locker rooms. The team pulled on their scarlet 
Gryffindor robes, then sat down to listen to Woods usual pre-match pep talk. Slytherin has better brooms than
 us, he began. No point de-
nying it. But weve got better 
people on our brooms. Weve trained harder than they have, weve been 
flying in all weathers  (Too 
true, muttered George Weasley. I havent been properly dry since 
August)  and were going to 
make them rue the day they let 
that little bit of slime, Malfoy, buy his way onto their team. 
Chest heaving with emotion, Wood turned to Harry. 

Itll be down to you, Harry, to show them that a Seeker has to 
have something more than a rich fa
ther. Get to that Snitch before 
Malfoy or die trying, Harry, because weve got to win today, weve got to. 
So no pressure, Harry, sa
id Fred, winking at him. 
As they walked out onto the field, a roar of noise greeted them; 
mainly cheers, because Ravenclaw 
and Hufflepuff were anxious to 
see Slytherin beaten, but the Slytherins in the crowd made their boos and hisses heard, too. Madam Hooch, the Quidditch teacher, 
asked Flint and Wood to shake hands, which they did, giving each 
other threatening stares
 and gripping rather harder than was neces-sary. On my whistle, said Madam 
Hooch. Three . . . two . . . one . . . 
With a roar from the crowd to speed them upward, the fourteen 
players rose toward the leaden sky. Harry flew higher than any of 

them, squinting around for the Snitch. 
 CHAPTER  TEN  168  All right there, Scarhead? ye
lled Malfoy, shooting underneath him as though to show o
ff the speed of his broom. 
Harry had no time to reply. At that very moment, a heavy black 
Bludger came pelting toward him; he
 avoided it so narrowly that he felt it ruffle his hair as it passed. 
Close one, Harry! said George, streaking past him with his 
club in his hand, ready to knock 
the Bludger back toward a Slyth-erin. Harry saw George give the 
Bludger a powerful whack in the 
direction of Adrian Pucey, but the Bludger changed direction in 
midair and shot straight for Harry again. Harry dropped quickly to avoid it, and George managed to hit it hard toward Malfoy. Once ag
ain, the Bludger swerved like a 
boomerang and shot at Harrys head. 
Harry put on a burst of speed and zoomed toward the other end 
of the field. He could hear th
e Bludger whistlin
g along behind 
him. What was going on? Bludge
rs never concentrated on one 
player like this; it was 
their job to try and unseat as many people as 
possible. . . . Fred Weasley was waiting for th
e Bludger at the other end. 
Harry ducked as Fred swung at the Bludger with all his might; the Bludger was knocked off course. 
Gotcha! Fred yelled happily, bu
t he was wrong; as though it was magnetically attracted to Harr
y, the Bludger pelted after him 
once more and Harry was forced
 to fly off at full speed. 
It had started to rain; Harry felt 
heavy drops fall onto his face, 
splattering onto his glas
ses. He didnt have a clue what was going 
on in the rest of the game unti
l he heard Lee Jordan, who was com-
mentating, say, Slytherin le
ad, sixty points to zero  
 THE  ROGUE  BLUDGER  169  The Slytherins superior brooms 
were clearly doing their jobs, 
and meanwhile the mad Bludger wa
s doing all it could to knock 
Harry out of the air. Fred and George were now flying so close to 
him on either side that Harry coul
d see nothing at 
all except their flailing arms and had no chance to look fo
r the Snitch, let alone catch it. Someones  tampered  with  this  Bludger  Fred 
grunted, swinging his bat with all 
his might at it as it launched a new attack on Harry. 
We need time out, said George, trying to signal to Wood and 
stop the Bludger breaking Harr
ys nose at the same time. 
Wood had obviously got the message. Madam Hoochs whistle rang out and Harry, Fred, and George dived for the ground, still trying to avoid the mad Bludger. 
Whats going on? said Wood as the Gryffindor team huddled together, while Slytherins in the 
crowd jeered. Were being flat-tened. Fred, George, where were you when that Bludger stopped 
Angelina scoring? We were twenty feet above he
r, stopping the other Bludger 
from murdering Harry, Oliver, said George angrily. Someones 
fixed it  it wont leave Harry alone. It hasnt gone for anyone else 
all game. The Slytherins must 
have done something to it. 
But the Bludgers have been lo
cked in Madam Hoochs office 
since our last practice, and there was nothing wrong with them 

then. . . . said Wood, anxiously. Madam Hooch was walking toward
 them. Over her shoulder, 
Harry could see the Slytherin team jeering and pointing in his di-
rection.  CHAPTER  TEN  170  Listen, said Harry as she came nearer and nearer, with you 
two flying around me all the time
 the only way Im going to catch 
the Snitch is if it flies up my sleeve. Go back to the rest of the team 
and let me deal wi
th the rogue one. Dont be thick, said Fred. Itll take your head off. 

Wood was looking from Harry to the Weasleys. Oliver, this is insane, said Alicia Spinnet angrily. You cant let 
Harry deal with that thing on his 
own. Lets ask for an inquiry  
If we stop now, well have to forfeit the match! said Harry. 
And were not losing to Slytherin 
just because of a crazy Bludger! 
Come on, Oliver, tell them to leave me alone! 
This is all your fault, George said angrily to Wood. Get the 
Snitch or die trying, what a stupid thing to tell him  
Madam Hooch had joined them. 
Ready to resume play? she asked Wood. Wood looked at the determined look on Harrys face. All right, he said. Fred, George, you heard Harry  leave 
him alone and let him deal with the Bludger on his own. 
The rain was falling more heavily now. On Madam Hoochs 
whistle, Harry kicked hard into the air and heard the telltale whoosh of the Bludger behind him. Higher
 and higher Harry climbed; he looped and swooped, spiraled, zigzagged, and rolled. Slightly dizzy, he nevertheless kept his eyes wide open, rain was speckling his 
glasses and ran up his nostrils as he hung upside down, avoiding 

another fierce dive from the Bludger. He could hear laughter from 
the crowd; he knew he must lo
ok very stupid, but the rogue 
Bludger was heavy and couldnt change direction as quickly as 
Harry could; he began a kind of roller-coaster ride around the  
 THE  ROGUE  BLUDGER  171  edges of the stadium, squinting thro
ugh the silver sheets of rain to 
the Gryffindor goal posts, where 
Adrian Pucey was trying to get 
past Wood  A whistling in Harrys ear told him the Bludger had just missed 
him again; he turned right over and sped in the oppo
site direction. 
Training for the ballet, Potter? yelled Malfoy as Harry was forced to do a stupid kind of twirl in midair to dodge the Bludger, and he fled, the Bludger trailing a few feet behind him; and then, 
glaring back at Malfoy 
in hatred, he saw it  
the Golden Snitch.
 It 
was hovering inches above Malfoy
s left ear  and Malfoy, busy laughing at Harry, hadnt seen it. 
For an agonizing moment, Harry hung in midair, not daring to 
speed toward Malfoy in case he
 looked up and saw the Snitch. 
WHAM. He had stayed still a second too long. The Bludger had hit him at last, smashed into his el
bow, and Harry felt his arm break. 
Dimly, dazed by the searing pain in his arm, he slid sideways on 
his rain-drenched broom, one knee 
still crooked over it, his right arm dangling useless at his side  the Bludger came pelting back 
for a second attack, this time ai
ming at his face  Harry swerved 
out of the way, one idea firmly
 lodged in his numb brain: 
get to 
Malfoy.
 Through a haze of rain and pain he dived for the shimmering, 
sneering face below him and saw it
s eyes widen with fear: Malfoy 
thought Harry was attacking him. 
What the  he gasped, care
ening out of Harrys way. 
Harry took his remaining hand off his broom and made a wild 
snatch; he felt his fing
ers close on the cold Snitch but was now only  
 CHAPTER  TEN  172  gripping the broom with his legs, and there was a yell from the 
crowd below as he headed straight for the ground, trying hard not 
to pass out. 
With a splattering thud he hit the mud and rolled off his broom. His arm was hanging at 
a very strange angle; riddled 
with pain, he heard, as though 
from a distance, a good deal of 
whistling and shouting. He focused on the Snitch clutched in his 

good hand. Aha, he said vaguely. Weve won. 

And he fainted. 
He came around, rain falling on hi
s face, still lying on the field, 
with someone leaning over him. He saw a glitter of teeth. 
Oh, no, not you, he moaned. 

Doesnt know what hes saying, said Lockhart loudly to the 
anxious crowd of Gryffindors pressing around them. Not to 
worry, Harry. Im abou
t to fix your arm. 
No! said Harry. Ill keep it like this, thanks. . . . He tried to sit up, but the pain was terrible. He heard a familiar 
clicking noise nearby. 
I dont want a photo of th
is, Colin, he said loudly. Lie back, Harry, said Lockhart soothingly. Its a simple charm Ive used countless times  
Why cant I just go to the ho
spital wing? said Harry through clenched teeth. He should really, Professor, said a muddy Wood, who couldnt 
help grinning even though his Seeker was inju
red. Great capture, 
Harry, really spectacular, your best yet, Id say  
Through the thicket of legs around
 him, Harry spotted Fred and  
 THE  ROGUE  BLUDGER  173  George Weasley, wrestling the rogue 
Bludger into a box. It was still 
putting up a terrific fight. 
Stand back, said Lockhart, who was rolling up his jade-green sleeves. No  dont  said Harry weakly
, but Lockhart was twirling 
his wand and a second later had dire
cted it straight at Harrys arm. 
A strange and unpleasant sensation started at Harrys shoulder 
and spread all the way down to his 
fingertips. It felt as though his 
arm was being deflated. He didnt 
dare look at what was happen-
ing. He had shut his eyes, his face turned away from his arm, but 
his worst fears were realized as the people above him gasped and 

Colin Creevey began clicking away 
madly. His arm didnt hurt any-
more  nor did it feel remotely like an arm. 
Ah, said Lockhart. Yes. Well, that can sometimes happen. But the point is, the bones are no longer broken. Thats the thing to 
bear in mind. So, Harry, just toddle up to the hospital wing  ah, Mr. Weasley, Miss Granger, would you escort him?  and Madam Pomfrey will be able to  er  tidy you up a bit. 
As Harry got to his feet, he felt strangely lopsided. Taking a deep breath he looked down at his right side. What he saw nearly made 
him pass out again. 
Poking out of the end of his robes was what looked like a thick, flesh-colored rubber glove. He trie
d to move his fingers. Nothing 
happened. Lockhart hadnt mended Harry
s bones. He had removed them.  Madam Pomfrey wasnt at all pleased. 
You should have come straight to me! she raged, holding up  
 CHAPTER  TEN  174  the sad, limp remainder of what, half an hour before, had been a working arm. I can m
end bones in a second  but growing them 
back  You will be able to, wont 
you? said Harry desperately. 
Ill be able to, certainly, but 
it will be painful, said Madam 
Pomfrey grimly, throwing Harry a pair of pajamas. Youll have to stay the night. . . . Hermione waited outside the curtain drawn around Harrys bed 
while Ron helped him into his pajama
s. It took a while to stuff the 
rubbery, boneless arm into a sleeve. 
How can you stick up for Lockhart now, Hermione, eh? Ron 
called through the curtain as he pulled Harrys limp fingers 

through the cuff. If Harry had wanted deboning he would have 
asked. 
Anyone can make a mistake, sa
id Hermione. And it doesnt 
hurt anymore, does it, Harry? 
No, said Harry, getting into bed. But it doesnt do anything 
else either. 
As he swung himself onto the bed, his arm flapped pointlessly. 
Hermione and Madam Pomfrey came around the curtain. 
Madam Pomfrey was holding a large bottle of something labeled 
Skele-Gro. Youre in for a rough night, she said, pouring out a steaming 
beakerful and handing it to him. Regrowing bones is a nasty busi-
ness. So was taking the Skele-Gro. It burned Harrys mouth and throat as it went down, making him coug
h and splutter. Still tut-tutting 
about dangerous sports and inept teachers, Madam Pomfrey re- 
 THE  ROGUE  BLUDGER  175  treated, leaving Ron and Hermione to help Harry gulp down some 
water. We won, though, said Ron, a 
grin breaking across his face. 
That was some catch you made. Malf
oys face . . . he looked ready to kill. . . . 
I want to know how he fixed 
that Bludger, said Hermione 
darkly. We can add that to the list of questions well ask him when 
weve taken the Polyjuice Potion, 
said Harry, sinking back onto 
his pillows. I hope it tastes 
better than this stuff. . . . If its got bits of Slytherins in it? Youve got to be joking, said 
Ron. The door of the hospital wing burst open at that moment. Filthy and soaking wet, the rest of the Gr
yffindor team had arrived to see Harry. Unbelievable flying, Harry, said
 George. Ive just seen Mar-
cus Flint yelling at Malfoy. Somet
hing about having the Snitch on 
top of his head and not noticing. Malfoy didnt seem too happy. 
They had brought cakes, sweets, and bottles of pumpkin juice; they gathered around Harrys bed and were just getting started on what promised to be a good party when Madam Pomfrey came storming over, shouting, This boy needs rest, hes got thirty-three 
bones to regrow! Out! OUT! 
And Harry was left alone, with nothing to distract him from the stabbing pains in his limp arm.  Hours and hours later, Harry woke
 quite suddenly in the pitch 
blackness and gave a small yelp of 
pain: His arm now felt full of  
 CHAPTER  TEN  176  large splinters. For a second, he thought that was what had woken him. Then, with a thrill of horror, he realized that someone was 
sponging his forehead in the dark. 
Get off! he said 
loudly, and then, 
Dobby
! The house-elfs goggling tennis 
ball eyes were peering at Harry 
through the darkness. A single tear was running down his long, 

pointed nose. Harry Potter came back to school, he whispered miserably. 
Dobby warned and warned Harry Potter. Ah sir, why didnt you 
heed Dobby? Why didnt Harry 
Potter go back home when he 
missed the train? 
Harry heaved himself up on his pillows and pushed Dobbys sponge away. 
Whatre you doing here? he said. And how did you know I missed the train? 
Dobbys lip trembled and Harry was seized by a sudden suspi-cion. It was 
you! he said slowly. 
You stopped the barrier from letting us through! Indeed yes, sir, said Dobby, nodding his head vigorously, ears 
flapping. Dobby hid and watched for Harry Potter and sealed the 
gateway and Dobby had to iron his hands afterward  he showed 
Harry ten long, bandaged fingers 
 but Dobby didnt care, sir, 
for he thought Harry Potter was safe, and never
 did Dobby dream that Harry Potter would get to school another way! 
He was rocking backward and fo
rward, shaking his ugly head. 
Dobby was so shocked when he heard Harry Potter was back at Hogwarts, he let his masters dinner burn! Such a flogging Dobby never had, sir. . . . THE  ROGUE  BLUDGER  177  Harry slumped back onto his pillows. You nearly got Ron and me expelle
d, he said fiercely. Youd better get lost before my bones come back, Dobby, or I might 
strangle you. 
Dobby smiled weakly. Dobby is used to death threats, 
sir. Dobby gets 
them five times 
a day at home. 
He blew his nose on a corner of
 the filthy pillowcase he wore, 
looking so pathetic that Harry felt his anger ebb away in spite of himself. 
Why dyou wear that thing, Dobby? he asked curiously. 
This, sir? said Dobby, plucking 
at the pillowcase. Tis a mark 
of the house-elfs enslavement, sir.
 Dobby can only be freed if his 
masters present him with clothes, si
r. The family is careful not to 
pass Dobby even a sock, sir, for then 
he would be free to leave their 

house forever. 
Dobby mopped his bulging eyes 
and said suddenly, Harry Pot-
ter must 
go home! Dobby thought his Bludger would be enough to 
make  
Your Bludger? said Harry, ange
r rising once more. What 
dyou mean, your Bludger? 
You made that Bludger try and kill me? 
Not kill you, sir, never kill you! said Dobby, shocked. Dobby 
wants to save Harry Potters life! Better sent home, grievously in-jured, than remain here, sir! Dobby only wanted Harry Potter hurt 
enough to be sent home! 
Oh, is that all? said Harry angrily. I dont suppose youre go-
ing to tell me 
why you wanted me sent home in pieces? 
Ah, if Harry Potter only knew! Dobby groaned, more tears 
dripping onto his ragged pillowcase. If he knew what he means 
CHAPTER  TEN  178  to us, to the lowly, the enslaved, we dregs of the magical world! 
Dobby remembers how it was when He-Who-Must-Not-Be-
Named was at the height of his po
wers, sir! We house-elves were treated like vermin, sir! Of course
, Dobby is still treated like that, 
sir, he admitted, drying his face
 on the pillowcase. But mostly, 
sir, life has improved for my ki
nd since you triumphed over He-
Who-Must-Not-Be-Named. Harry Potter survived, and the Dark 

Lords power was broken, and it 
was a new dawn, sir, and Harry 
Potter shone like a beacon of hope for those of us who thought 

the Dark days would never end, si
r. . . . And now, at Hogwarts, terrible things are to happen, ar
e perhaps happening already, and 
Dobby cannot let Harry Potter stay here now that history is to repeat itself, now that the Chamber of Secrets is open once 
more  
Dobby froze, horrorstruck, then grabbed Harrys water jug from 
his bedside table and cracked it over his own head, toppling out of sight. A second later, he crawled back onto the bed, cross-eyed, 

muttering, Bad Dobby, 
very bad Dobby . . . So there is a Chamber of Secrets? 
Harry whispered. And  
did you say its been opened before
? Tell me, Dobby! 
He seized the elfs bony wrist 
as Dobbys hand 
inched toward 
the water jug. But Im not Muggle-born  how can I be in dan-
ger from the Chamber? 
Ah, sir, ask no more, ask no 
more of poor Dobby, stammered 
the elf, his eyes huge in the dark. Dark deeds are planned in this 

place, but Harry Potter must no
t be here when they happen  go 
home, Harry Potter, go home. Harry Potter must not meddle in this, sir, tis too dangerous  Who is it, Dobby? Harry said, keeping a firm hold on Dobbys THE  ROGUE  BLUDGER  179  wrist to stop him from hitting him
self with the water jug again. Whos opened it? Who opened it last time? 
Dobby cant, sir, Dobby cant, 
Dobby mustnt tell! squealed the 
elf. Go home, Harry Potter, go home! 
Im not going anywhere! said 
Harry fiercely. One of my best 
friends is Muggle-born; shell be fi
rst in line if the Chamber really 
has been opened  Harry Potter risks his own life 
for his friends! moaned Dobby 
in a kind of miserable ecstasy. S
o noble! So valiant! But he must 
save himself, he must, Ha
rry Potter must not  
Dobby suddenly froze, his bat 
ears quivering. Harry heard it, 
too. There were footsteps coming
 down the passageway outside. Dobby must go! breathed the elf, terrified. There was a loud 
crack, and Harrys fist was suddenly clenched on thin air. He 
slumped back into bed, his eyes on the dark doorway to the hospi-tal wing as the footsteps drew nearer. 
Next moment, Dumbledore was backing into the dormitory, 
wearing a long woolly dressing gown and a nightcap. He was carry-
ing one end of what looked like a statue. Professor McGonagall appeared a second later, carrying its feet. Together, they heaved it onto a bed. Get Madam Pomfrey, whispered Dumbledore, and Professor McGonagall hurried past the end of Harrys bed out of sight. Harry lay quite still, pretendin
g to be asleep. He heard urgent voices, and 
then Professor McGonagall swept ba
ck into view, closely followed 
by Madam Pomfrey, who was pulling
 a cardigan on over her night-
dress. He heard a sharp intake of breath. What happened? Madam Pomfrey whispered to Dumbledore, 
bending over the statue on the bed. 
CHAPTER  TEN  180  Another attack, said Dumbledor
e. Minerva found him on the stairs. There was a bunch of grapes next to him, said Professor Mc-
Gonagall. We think he wa
s trying to sneak up he
re to visit Potter. 
Harrys stomach gave a horrible lurch. Slowly and carefully, he 
raised himself a few inches so he 
could look at th
e statue on the 
bed. A ray of moonlight lay across its staring face. 
It was Colin Creevey. His eyes were wide and his hands were 
stuck up in front of 
him, holding his camera. 
Petrified? whispe
red Madam Pomfrey. 
Yes, said Professor McGonagall. But I shudder to think . . . If 
Albus hadnt been on
 the way downstairs fo
r hot chocolate  who knows what might have  
The three of them stared down at Colin. Then Dumbledore 
leaned forward and wrenched the camera out of Colins rigid grip. 
You dont think he managed to 
get a picture of his attacker? said Professor McGonagall eagerly. 
Dumbledore didnt answer. He opened the back of the camera. 
Good gracious! said Madam Pomfrey. 
A jet of steam had hissed out of the camera. Harry, three beds away, caught the acrid smell of burnt plastic. 
Melted, said Madam Pomfrey wonderingly. All melted . . . 
What does this mean, Albus? Professor McGonagall asked ur-
gently. 
It means, said Dumbledore, that the Chamber of Secrets is 
indeed open again. 
Madam Pomfrey clapped a hand to her mouth. Professor McGonagall stared at Dumbledore. 
 THE  ROGUE  BLUDGER  181  But, Albus . . . surely . . . who? The question is not 
who, said Dumbledore, his eyes on Colin. 
The question is, how. . . . And from what Harry could see of Professor McGonagalls shad-owy face, she didnt 
understand this any better than he did. 
C H A P T E R  E L E V E N   182  THE DUELING CLUB 
   arry woke up on Sunday mo
rning to find the dormitory 
blazing with winter sunlig
ht and his arm reboned but 
very stiff. He sat up quickly and looked over at Colins bed, but it 

had been blocked from view by the high curtains Harry had 
changed behind yesterday. Seeing that he was aw
ake, Madam Pom-
frey came bustling over with a breakfast tray and then began bend-

ing and stretching hi
s arm and fingers. All in order, she said as he 
clumsily fed himself porridge left-
handed. When youve finished eating, you may leave. 
Harry dressed as quickly as he could and hurried off to Gryf-
findor Tower, desperate to te
ll Ron and Hermione about Colin 
and Dobby, but they werent there. Harry left to look for 
them, wondering where they could ha
ve got to and feeling slightly 
hurt that they werent interested in whether he had his bones 
back or not.  H THE  DUELING  CLUB  183  As Harry passed the library, Percy Weasley strolled out of it, 
looking in far better spirits 
than last time theyd met. 
Oh, hello, Harry, he said. Excellent flying yesterday, really ex-
cellent. Gryffindor has just ta
ken the lead for the House Cup  
you earned fifty points! 
You havent seen Ron or Herm
ione, have you? said Harry. 
No, I havent, said Percy, his sm
ile fading. I hope Rons not in 
another 
girls toilet.
 . . . Harry forced a laugh, watched Percy walk out of sight, and then headed straight for Moaning Myr
tles bathroom. He couldnt see 
why Ron and Hermione would be in there again, but after making 
sure that neither Filch nor any prefects were around, he opened the door and heard their voices coming from a locked stall. Its me, he said, closing the door behind him. There was a 
clunk, a splash, and a gasp from within the stall and he saw 
Hermiones eye peering 
through the keyhole. Harry
! she said. You gave us 
such a fright  come in  
hows your arm? 
Fine, said Harry, squeezing into the stall. An old cauldron was 
perched on the toilet, and a crac
kling from under the rim told 
Harry they had lit a fire beneath it. Conjuring up portable, water-
proof fires was a speciality of Hermiones. Wedve come to meet you, but 
we decided to get started on the Polyjuice Potion, Ron explained 
as Harry, with difficulty, locked the stall again. Weve decided this
 is the safest place to hide it. Harry started to tell them about Colin, but Hermione inter-rupted. We already know  we heard Professor McGonagall telling  
 CHAPTER  ELEVEN   184  Professor Flitwick this morning. Th
ats why we decided wed better get going  
The sooner we get a confession out of Malfoy, the better, snarled Ron. Dyou know what I think? He was in such a foul temper after the Quidditch match, he took it out on Colin. 
Theres something else, said 
Harry, watching 
Hermione tear-
ing bundles of knotgrass and throwing them into the potion. 
Dobby came to visit me in
 the middle of the night. 
Ron and Hermione looked up, amazed. Harry told them every-
thing Dobby had told him  or 
hadnt told him. Hermione and 
Ron listened with their mouths open. The Chamber of Secrets has been opened 
before? Hermione 
said. This settles it, said Ron in a 
triumphant voice. Lucius Malfoy 
mustve opened the Chamber when 
he was at school here and now 
hes told dear old Draco how to do it. Its obvious. Wish Dobbyd 
told you what kind of monsters in
 there, though. I want to know how come nobodys noticed it 
sneaking around the school. 
Maybe it can make itself invisible, said Hermione, prodding leeches to the bottom of the caul
dron. Or maybe it can disguise itself  pretend to be a suit of armor or something  Ive read 
about Chameleon Ghouls  
You read too much, Hermione, said Ron, pouring dead 
lacewings on top of the leeche
s. He crumpled up the empty 

lacewing bag and looked at Harry. 
So Dobby stopped us from getting on the train and broke your arm. . . . He shook his head. You
 know what, Harry? If he doesnt 
stop trying to save your life hes going to kill you. 
         THE  DUELING  CLUB  185  The news that Colin Creevey had b
een attacked and was now lying 
as though dead in the hospital 
wing had spread through the entire 
school by Monday morning. The 
air was suddenly thick with ru-
mor and suspicion. The first years were now moving around the 
castle in tight-knit groups, as thou
gh scared they would be attacked 
if they ventured forth alone. 
Ginny Weasley, who sat next to Colin Creevey in Charms, was 
distraught, but Harry felt that Fred and George were going the wrong way about cheering her up. They were taking turns covering 
themselves with fur or boils and 
jumping out at her from behind 
statues. They only stopped when Percy, apoplectic with rage, told 
them he was going to write to Mrs. Weasley and tell her Ginny was 
having nightmares. Meanwhile, hidden from the teachers, a roaring trade in talis-
mans, amulets, and other protective devices was sweeping the 
school. Neville Longbottom bought a large, evil-smelling green 
onion, a pointed purple crystal, 
and a rotting newt tail before the other Gryffindor boys pointed out that he was in no danger; he was 
a pureblood, and therefore unlikely to be attacked. 
They went for Filch first, Neville said, his round face fearful. 
And everyone knows Im almost a Squib. 
 In the second week of December Professor McGonagall came around as usual, collecting names 
of those who would be staying at school for Christmas. Harry, Ron, and Hermione signed her list; 
they had heard that Malfoy was staying, which struck them as very 
suspicious. The holidays would be the perfect time to use the 

Polyjuice Potion and try to worm a confession out of him. 
Unfortunately, the potion was on
ly half finished. They still 
CHAPTER  ELEVEN   186  needed the bicorn horn and the boomslang skin, and the only 
place they were going to get them
 was from Snapes private stores. 
Harry privately felt hed rather face Slytherins legendary monster 
than let Snape catch him robbing his office. What we need, said Hermione briskly as Thursday afternoons 
double Potions lesson loomed nearer, is a diversion. Then one of 
us can sneak into Snapes office and take what we need. 
Harry and Ron looked at her nervously. 
I think Id better do the actual
 stealing, Hermione continued 
in a matter-of-fact tone. 
You two will be expe
lled if you get into 
any more trouble, and Ive got a clean record. So all you need to 
do is cause enough mayhem to keep Snape busy for five minutes 
or so. Harry smiled feebly. Deliberately
 causing mayhem in Snapes 
Potions class was about as safe as poking a sleeping dragon in the 
eye. Potions lessons took place in on
e of the large dungeons. Thurs-
day afternoons lesson proceeded 
in the usual way. Twenty caul-drons stood steaming between the wooden de
sks, on which stood brass scales and jars of ingredients. Snape prow
led through the 
fumes, making waspish remarks about the Gryffindors work while 
the Slytherins sniggered appreciatively. Draco Malfoy, who was 
Snapes favorite student, kept flic
king puffer-fish eyes at Ron and 
Harry, who knew that if they retaliated they would get detention 

faster than you co
uld say Unfair. 
Harrys Swelling Solution was far too runny, but he had his 
mind on more important things. He was waiting for Hermiones 

signal, and he hardly listened as Snape paused to sneer at his watery  
 THE  DUELING  CLUB  187  potion. When Snape turned and walked off to bully Neville, 
Hermione caught Harrys eye and nodded. Harry ducked swiftly down behind his cauldr
on, pulled one of Freds Filibuster fireworks ou
t of his pocket, and gave it a 

quick prod with his wand. The fire
work began to fizz and sputter. 
Knowing he had only seconds, Harry straightened up, took aim, 
and lobbed it into the air; it la
nded right on target in Goyles 
cauldron. 
Goyles potion exploded, shower
ing the whole class. People 
shrieked as splashes of the Swelling Solution hit them. Malfoy got a faceful and his nose began to 
swell like a balloon; Goyle blun-
dered around, his hands over his eyes, which had expanded to the 
size of a dinner plate  Snape was 
trying to restore calm and find 
out what had happened. Through the confusion, Harry saw Her-mione slip quietly into Snapes office. 
Silence! SILENCE! Snape ro
ared. Anyone who has been 
splashed, come here for a Deflating Draught  when I find out 

who did this  Harry tried not to laugh as he 
watched Malfoy hurry forward, 
his head drooping with the weight of a nose like a small melon. As 
half the class lumbered up to 
Snapes desk, some weighted down with arms like clubs, others unable to talk through gigantic puffed-
up lips, Harry saw Hermione slid
e back into the dungeon, the 
front of her robes bulging. 
When everyone had taken a swig of antidote and the various 
swellings had subsided, Snape swept over to Goyles cauldron and 
scooped out the twisted black remains of the 
firework. There was a 
sudden hush.  CHAPTER  ELEVEN   188  If I ever find out who threw this, Snape whispered, I shall make sure that person is expelled. 
Harry arranged his face into what he hoped was a puzzled ex-pression. Snape was looking right at him, and the bell that rang ten 
minutes later could not have been more welcome. 
He knew it was me, Harry told Ron and Hermione as they 
hurried back to Moaning Myrtles bathroom. I could tell. 
Hermione threw the new ingredients into the cauldron and be-
gan to stir feverishly. Itll be ready in two we
eks, she said happily. 
Snape cant prove it was you, 
said Ron reassuringly to Harry. 
What can he do? 
Knowing Snape, something foul
, said Harry as the potion frothed and bubbled. 
 A week later, Harry, Ron, and Hermione were walking across the entrance hall when they saw a sm
all knot of people gathered 
around the notice board, reading a piece of parchment that had 
just been pinned up
. Seamus Finnigan and Dean Thomas beck-
oned them over, looking excited. 
Theyre starting a Dueling Club! said Seamus. First meeting 
tonight! I wouldnt mind duelin
g lessons; they might come in 
handy one of these days. . . . 
What, you reckon Slytherins monster can duel? said Ron, but 
he, too, read the si
gn with interest. Could be useful, he said to 
Harry and Hermione as they went 
into dinner. Shall we go? 
Harry and Hermione were all for it, so at eight oclock that  
 THE  DUELING  CLUB  189  evening they hurried back to the Great Hall. The long dining tables 
had vanished and a golden stage had 
appeared along one wall, lit by 
thousands of candles floating overhead. The ceiling was velvety 
black once more and most of the school seemed to be packed be-neath it, all carrying their wands and looking excited. 
I wonder wholl be teaching us? said Hermione as they edged 
into the chattering crowd. Someone told me Flitwick was a duel-

ing champion when he was yo
ung  maybe itll be him. 
As long as its not  Harry began, but he ended on a groan: 
Gilderoy Lockhart was walking onto the stage, resplendent in robes 
of deep plum and accompanied by none other than Snape, wearing 
his usual black. 
Lockhart waved an arm for silence and called, Gather round, 
gather round! Can everyone see me? Can you all hear me? Excel-
lent! Now, Professor Dumbledore has granted me permission to start 
this little dueling club, to train yo
u all in case you ever need to de-fend yourselves as I myself have
 done on countless occasions  for 
full details, see my published works. 
Let me introduce my assistant, Professor Snape, said Lockhart, 
flashing a wide smile. He tells me
 he knows a tiny little bit about 
dueling himself and has sportingly agreed to help me with a short 
demonstration before we begin. Now, I dont want any of you 
youngsters to worry  youll still have your Potions master when Im through with him, never fear! 
Wouldnt it be good if they fi
nished each other off? Ron mut-
tered in Harrys ear. 
Snapes upper lip was curling. 
Harry wondered why Lockhart  
 CHAPTER  ELEVEN   190  was still smiling; if Snape had been looking at 
him like that hed 
have been running as fast as he could in the opposite direction. 
Lockhart and Snape turned to face each other and bowed; at 
least, Lockhart did, with much twirling of his hands, whereas 
Snape jerked his head irritably. 
Then they raised their wands like 
swords in front of them. As you see, we are holding our wands in the accepted combat-
ive position, Lockhart told the 
silent crowd. On the count of 
three, we will cast our first spells
. Neither of us wi
ll be aiming to kill, of course. 
I wouldnt bet on that, Harry murmured, watching Snape bar-
ing his teeth. 
One  two  three  
Both of them swung their wand
s above their heads and pointed 
them at their opponent; Snape cried: Expelliarmus! There was a 
dazzling flash of scarlet light and Lockhart was blasted off his feet: 
He flew backward off the stage, 
smashed into the wall, and slid 
down it to sprawl on the floor. 
Malfoy and some of the other Slytherins cheered. Hermione was 
dancing on tiptoes. Do you think hes all right? she squealed through her fingers. 
Who cares? said Harry and Ron together. 
Lockhart was getting unsteadily to his feet. His hat had fallen off 
and his wavy hair was standing on end. 
Well, there you have it! he said, tottering back onto the plat-
form. That was a Disarming Charm  as you see, Ive lost my 
wand  ah, thank you, Miss Brown  yes, an excellent idea to 
show them that, Professor Snape, but if you dont mind my saying  
 THE  DUELING  CLUB  191  so, it was very obvious what you were about to do. If I had wanted to stop you it would have been only too easy  however, I felt it 
would be instructive to let them see . . . 
Snape was looking murderous. Possibly Lockhart had noticed, because he said, Enough demons
trating! Im going to come 
amongst you now and put you all into pairs. Professor Snape, if 

youd like to help me  They moved through 
the crowd, matching up partners. Lock-
hart teamed Neville with Justin 
Finch-Fletchley, but Snape reached Harry and Ron first. 
Time to split up the dream 
team, I think, he sneered. Weasley, you can partner Finnigan. Potter  
Harry moved automatica
lly toward Hermione. 
I dont think so, said Snape, 
smiling coldly. Mr. Malfoy, come 
over here. Lets see what you make
 of the famous Potter. And you, 
Miss Granger  you can pa
rtner Miss Bulstrode. 
Malfoy strutted over, smirking. Behind him walked a Slytherin 
girl who reminded Harry of a picture hed seen in Holidays with Hags. She was large and square and 
her heavy jaw jutted aggres-
sively. Hermione gave her a weak smile that she did not return. 
Face your partners! called Lockhart, back on the platform. 
And bow! 
Harry and Malfoy barely inclined their heads, not taking their 
eyes off each other. 
Wands at the ready! shouted Lockhart. When I count to three, cast your charms to disarm your opponents  
only to dis-arm them  we dont want any 
accidents  one . . . two . . . three   CHAPTER  ELEVEN   192  Harry swung his wand high, but Malfoy had already started on 
two: His spell hit Harry so hard he felt as though hed been hit 
over the head with a saucepan. 
He stumbled, but everything still 
seemed to be working, and wasting no more time, Harry pointed 
his wand straight at 
Malfoy and shouted, Rictusempra
! A jet of silver light hit Malfoy
 in the stomach and he doubled up, wheezing. I said disarm only
! Lockhart shouted in alarm over the heads 
of the battling crowd, as Malfoy sank to his knees; Harry had hit 
him with a Tickling Charm, and he could barely move for laugh-
ing. Harry hung back, with a vagu
e feeling it would be unsporting 
to bewitch Malfoy while he was on the floor, but this was a mis-
take; gasping for breath, Malfoy pointed his wand at Harrys knees, 
choked, Tarantallegra! and the next second Harrys legs began to jerk around out of his control in a kind of quickstep. 
Stop! Stop! screamed Lock
hart, but Snape took charge. 
Finite Incantatem
! he shouted; Harrys feet stopped dancing, 
Malfoy stopped laughing, and they were able to look up. 
A haze of greenish smoke was hovering over the scene. Both 
Neville and Justin were lying on the floor, panting; Ron was hold-
ing up an ashen-faced Seamus, apologizing for 
whatever his broken wand had done; but Hermione and Millicent Bulstrode were still 
moving; Millicent had Hermione in a headlock and Hermione was 

whimpering in pain; both their 
wands lay forgotten on the floor. 
Harry leapt forward and pulled Millicent off. It was difficult: She 
was a lot bigger than he was. 
Dear, dear, said Lockhart, skit
tering through the crowd, look-ing at the aftermath of the duels.
 Up you go, Macmillan. . . .  
 THE  DUELING  CLUB  193  Careful there, Miss Fawcet
t. . . . Pinch it hard, itll stop bleeding in 
a second, Boot  I think Id better teach you how to 
block unfriendly spells, said 
Lockhart, standing flustered in the 
midst of the hall. He glanced at Snape, whose black eyes glinted, and looked quickly away. Lets 
have a volunteer pair  Longbo
ttom and Finch-Fletchley, how 
about you  
A bad idea, Professor Lockhart, said Snape, gliding over like a 
large and malevolent bat. Longbo
ttom causes devastation with the 
simplest spells. Well be sending what
s left of Finch-Fletchley up to 
the hospital wing in a matchbox. 
Nevilles round, pink face went 
pinker. How about Malfoy and Potter? said Snape with a twisted 
smile. Excellent idea! said Lockhart, gesturing Harry and Malfoy into the middle of the hall as the crowd backed away to give them room. Now, Harry, said Lockhart. W
hen Draco points his wand at 
you, you do 
this.
 He raised his own wand, attemp
ted a complicated sort of wig-gling action, and dropped it. Snape smirked as Lockhart quickly 
picked it up, saying, Whoops 
 my wand is a little overex-
cited  
Snape moved closer to Malfoy, bent down, and whispered some-thing in his ear. Malfoy smirked, too. Harry looked up nervously at Lockhart and said, Professor, could you show me that blocking thing again? Scared? muttered Malfoy, so that Lockhart couldnt hear him. 

You wish, said Harry out of
 the corner of his mouth. 
 CHAPTER  ELEVEN   194  Lockhart cuffed Harry merrily on the shoulder. Just do what I 
did, Harry! What, drop my wand? 
But Lockhart wasnt listening. 
Three  two  one  go! he shouted. 
Malfoy raised his wand 
quickly and bellowed, Serpensortia
! The end of his wand exploded. Harry watched, aghast, as a long black snake shot out of it, fell heavily onto the floor between them, 

and raised itself, ready to strike. There were screams as the crowd 
backed swiftly away, clearing the floor. 
Dont move, Potter, said Snape 
lazily, clearly enjoying the sight 
of Harry standing motionless, eye to eye with the angry snake. Ill 

get rid of it. . . . 
Allow me! shouted Lockhart. He brandish
ed his wand at the 
snake and there was a loud bang; th
e snake, instead of vanishing, 
flew ten feet into the air and fell 
back to the floor with a loud smack. Enraged, hissin
g furiously, it slithe
red straight toward 
Justin Finch-Fletchley and raised it
self again, fangs exposed, poised 
to strike. Harry wasnt sure what made him 
do it. He wasnt even aware of 
deciding to do it. All he knew was that his legs were carrying him 
forward as though he was on casters and that he had shouted stu-pidly at the snake, Leave him 
alone! And miraculously  inex-
plicably  the snake slumped to th
e floor, docile as a thick, black garden hose, its eyes now on Harry. Harry felt the fear drain out of 
him. He knew the snake wouldnt 
attack anyone now, though how 
he knew it, he couldnt have explained. 
He looked up at Justin, grinning, 
expecting to see Justin looking  
 THE  DUELING  CLUB  195  relieved, or puzzled, or even grateful  but certainly not angry 
and scared. 
What do you think youre playing 
at? he shouted, and before Harry could say anything, Justin had turned and stormed out of the 

hall. 
Snape stepped forward, waved hi
s wand, and the snake vanished in a small puff of black smoke. Sn
ape, too, was looking at Harry in an unexpected way: It was a shre
wd and calculatin
g look, and Harry didnt like it. He was 
also dimly aware of an ominous muttering all around the walls. Then he felt a tugging on the back of his robes. 
Come on, said Rons voice in his ear. Move  come 
on  Ron steered him out of the hall, Hermione hurrying alongside 
them. As they went through the doors, the people on either side 
drew away as though they were 
frightened of catching something. 
Harry didnt have a clue what was going on, and neither Ron nor 
Hermione explained anything unti
l they had dragged him all the way up to the empty Gryffindor common room. Then Ron pushed 
Harry into an armchair and said
, Youre a Parselmouth. Why didnt you tell us? 
Im a what? said Harry. 
A Parselmouth! said Ron. You can talk to snakes! 
I know, said Harry. I mean, thats only the second time Ive 
ever done it. I accidentally set a boa constrictor on my cousin Dud-
ley at the zoo once  long story  but it was telling me it had 
never seen Brazil and I sort of 
set it free without meaning to  
that was before I knew
 I was a wizard  A boa constrictor told you it 
had never seen Brazil? Ron re-peated faintly.  CHAPTER  ELEVEN   196  So? said Harry. I bet loads of people here can do it. 
Oh, no they cant, said Ro
n. Its not a very common gift. 
Harry, this is bad. 
Whats bad? said Harry, starting to feel quite angry. Whats 
wrong with everyone? Listen, if I ha
dnt told that snake not to at-
tack Justin  Oh, thats what you said to it? 
What dyou mean? You were 
there  you heard me  
I heard you speaking Parseltongue
, said Ron. Snake language. 
You could have been saying anyt
hing  no wonder Justin pan-
icked, you sounded like you were egging the snake on or some-
thing  it was cree
py, you know  
Harry gaped at him. 
I spoke a different language? But  I didnt realize  how can 
I speak a language without knowing I can speak it? Ron shook his head. Both he and Hermione were looking as 
though someone had died. Harry coul
dnt see what was so terrible. 
Dyou want to tell me whats
 wrong with stopping a massive snake biting off Justins head? he said. What does it matter 
how I did it as long as Justin doesnt have to jo
in the Headless Hunt? 
It matters, said Herm
ione, speaking at last in a hushed voice, 
because being able to talk to sn
akes was what Salazar Slytherin was 
famous for. Thats why the symbol 
of Slytherin House is a serpent. 
Harrys mouth fell open. 

Exactly, said Ron. And now th
e whole schools going to think 
youre his great-great-great-gr
eat-grandson or something  
But Im not, said Harry, with a 
panic he couldnt quite explain. 
Youll find that hard to prove,
 said Hermione. He lived about 
a thousand years ago; for al
l we know, you could be. 
THE  DUELING  CLUB  197           Harry lay awake for hours that night. Through a gap in the cur-
tains around his four-poster he watc
hed snow starting to drift past the tower window and wondered . . .
 Could he be a descendant of Salazar Slytherin? He didnt know 
anything about his fathers family, 
after all. The Dursleys had al-
ways forbidden questions abou
t his wizarding relatives. 
Quietly, Harry tried to say something in Parseltongue. The 
words wouldnt come. It seemed he
 had to be face-to-face with a snake to do it.
 But Im in Gryffindor, Harry thought. 
The Sorting Hat wouldnt 
have put me in here if
 I had Slytherin blood.
 . . . Ah, said a nasty little 
voice in his brain, but the Sorting Hat 
wanted to put you in Slytherin, dont you remember
? Harry turned over. He
d see Justin the next day in Herbology 
and hed explain that hed been calling the snake off, not egging it on, which (he thought angrily, pummeling his pillow) any fool 
should have realized. 
 By next morning, however, the sn
ow that had begun in the night had turned into a blizzard so thic
k that the last Herbology lesson of 
the term was canceled: Professor 
Sprout wanted to fit socks and scarves on the Mandrakes, a tricky operation she would entrust to 
no one else, now that it was so
 important for the Mandrakes to 
grow quickly and revive Mrs. Norris and Colin Creevey. 
Harry fretted about this next to the fire in the Gryffindor com-mon room, while Ron and Hermione used their time off to play a 
game of wizard chess. 
For heavens sake, Harry, said Hermione, exasperated, as one 
CHAPTER  ELEVEN   198  of Rons bishops wrestled her knight off his horse and dragged him 
off the board. Go and find
 Justin if its so
 important to you. 
So Harry got up and left through the portrait hole, wondering 
where Justin might be. 
The castle was darker than it usually was in daytime because of 
the thick, swirling gray snow at every window. Shivering, Harry 
walked past classrooms where lessons were taking place, catching 
snatches of what was happening 
within. Professor McGonagall was 
shouting at someone who, by the sound of it, had turned his friend 
into a badger. Resisting the urge 
to take a look, Harry walked on 
by, thinking that Justin might be using his free time to catch up on 

some work, and deciding to check the library first. A group of the Hufflepuffs who should have been in Herbology 
were indeed sitting at the back of the library,
 but they didnt seem 
to be working. Between the long 
lines of high bookshelves, Harry could see that their heads were close together and they were hav-

ing what looked like an absorbing conversation. He couldnt see 
whether Justin was among them. He was walking toward them when something of what they were saying met his ears, and he 
paused to listen, hidden in
 the Invisibility section. 
So anyway, a stout boy was saying, I told Justin to hide up in 
our dormitory. I mean to say, if Potters marked him down as his 
next victim, its best if he keeps a 
low profile for a while. Of course, 
Justins been waiting for something 
like this to happ
en ever since he let slip to Potter he was Mu
ggle-born. Justin actually 
told
 him hed 
been down for Eton. Thats not th
e kind of thing you bandy about 
with Slytherins heir on the loose, is it? 
You definitely think it 
is Potter, then, Ernie? said a girl with 
blonde pigtails anxiously. 
THE  DUELING  CLUB  199  Hannah, said the stout boy so
lemnly, hes a Parselmouth. 
Everyone knows thats the mark of
 a Dark wizard. Have you ever heard of a decent one who could talk to snakes? They called 
Slytherin himself Serpent-tongue. 
There was some heavy murmuring 
at this, and Ernie went on, 
Remember what was written on the wall? 
Enemies of the Heir, Be-ware. Potter had some sort of run-in with Filch. Next thing we know, 
Filchs cats attacked. That first 
year, Creevey, was annoying Potter 
at the Quidditch match, taking pictures of 
him while he was lying 
in the mud. Next thing we know  Creevey
s been attacked. 
He always seems so nice, thou
gh, said Hannah uncertainly, 
and, well, hes the one who made You-Know-Who disappear. He cant be all bad, can he? 
Ernie lowered his voice mysterious
ly, the Hufflepuffs bent closer, 
and Harry edged nearer so that he could catch Ernies words. 
No one knows how he survived that attack by You-Know-Who. 
I mean to say, he was only a baby when it happened. He should 

have been blasted into smithereens
. Only a really powerful Dark 
wizard could have survived a curse 
like that. He dropped his voice until it was barely more than a whisper, and said, 
Thats
 probably why You-Know-Who wanted to kill him in the first place. Didnt 
want another Dark Lord 
competing with him. I wonder what other 
powers Potters been hiding? 
Harry couldnt take anymore. Cl
earing his throat loudly, he 
stepped out from behind the bookshelves. If he hadnt been feeling 
so angry, he would have found 
the sight that greeted him funny: 
Every one of the Hufflepuffs looked as though they had been Pet-rified by the sight of him, and th
e color was draining
 out of Ernies face. CHAPTER  ELEVEN   200  Hello, said Harry. Im look
ing for Justin Finch-Fletchley. 
The Hufflepuffs worst fears had 
clearly been confirmed. They 
all looked fearfully at Ernie. What do you want with him? said Ernie in a quavering voice. I wanted to tell him what rea
lly happened with that snake at the Dueling Club, said Harry. 
Ernie bit his white lips and then, 
taking a deep breath, said, We 
were all there. We 
saw what happened. Then you noticed that after I spoke to it, the snake backed off? said Harry. 
All I saw, said Ernie stubborn
ly, though he was trembling as 
he spoke, was you speaking Pa
rseltongue and chasing the snake 
toward Justin. 
I didnt chase it at him! Ha
rry said, his voice shaking with 
anger. It didnt even 
touch him! It was a very near miss, said Ernie. And in case youre getting ideas, he added hastily, I might tell you that you can trace my family back through nine generations of witches and warlocks and 
my bloods as pure as anyones, so  
I dont care what sort of blood 
youve got! said Harry fiercely. Why would I want to 
attack Muggle-borns? 
Ive heard you hate those Muggles you live with, said Ernie 
swiftly. Its not possible to live with th
e Dursleys and not hate them, 
said Harry. Id like
 to see you try it. 
He turned on his heel and stormed out of the library, earning himself a reproving glare from 
Madam Pince, who was polishing the gilded cover of a large spellbook. 
 THE  DUELING  CLUB  201  Harry blundered up the corridor, barely noticing where he was 
going, he was in such a fury. The 
result was that he walked into 
something very large and solid, which knocked him backward onto 
the floor. Oh, hello, Hagrid, Harry said, looking up. 

Hagrids face was entirely hidd
en by a woolly, snow-covered bal-aclava, but it couldnt possibly be 
anyone else, as he filled most of the corridor in his moleskin over
coat. A dead rooster was hanging 

from one of his massive, gloved hands. 
All righ, Harry? he said, pull
ing up the balaclava so he could 
speak. Why arent yeh in class? 
Canceled, said Harry, getting up. Whatre you doing in 
here? 
Hagrid held up th
e limp rooster. Second one killed this term, he 
explained. Its either foxes or 
a Blood-Suckin Bugbear, an I need
 the headmasters permission ter put a charm around the hen coop. 
He peered more closely at Harry from under his thick, snow-flecked eyebrows. 
Yeh sure yehre all righ? Yeh look all hot an bothered  
Harry couldnt bring himself to repeat what Ernie and the rest of 
the Hufflepuffs had been saying about him. 
Its nothing, he said. Id bett
er get going, Hagrid, its Trans-
figuration next and Ive go
t to pick up my books. 
He walked off, his mind still full of what Ernie had said about 
him. Justins been waiting for something 
like this to happen ever since he let slip to Potter he was Muggle-born.
 . . .  CHAPTER  ELEVEN   202  Harry stamped up the stairs and turned along another corridor, 
which was particularly dark; the torches had been extinguished by 
a strong, icy draft that was blow
ing through a loose windowpane. He was halfway down the passage when he tripped headlong over 
something lying on the floor. 
He turned to squint at what he
d fallen over and felt as though his stomach had dissolved. 
Justin Finch-Fletchley was lying 
on the floor, rigid and cold, a look of shock frozen on his face, his eyes staring blankly at the ceil-
ing. And that wasnt all. Next
 to him was another figure, the 
strangest sight Harry had ever seen. 
It was Nearly Headless Nick, no longer pearly-white and trans-
parent, but black and sm
oky, floating immobile and horizontal, six 
inches off the floor. His head was half off and his face wore an ex-

pression of shock identical to Justins. 
Harry got to his feet, his breathing fast and shallow, his heart do-ing a kind of drumroll against his ribs. He looked wildly up and 
down the deserted corridor and saw a line of spiders scuttling as 
fast as they could away from the 
bodies. The only sounds were the muffled voices of teachers from the classes on either side. 
He could run, and no one would 
ever know he had been there. 
But he couldnt just leave them lying here. . . . He had to get 

help. . . . Would anyone believe he hadnt had anything to do with 
this? As he stood there, panicking, a door right next to him opened with a bang. Peeves the Polt
ergeist came shooting out. 
Why, its potty wee Potter! ca
ckled Peeves, knocking Harrys glasses askew as he bounced past 
him. Whats Potter up to? Whys 
Potter lurking  THE  DUELING  CLUB  203  Peeves stopped, halfway through a midair somersault. Upside 
down, he spotted Justin and Nearly Headless Nick. He flipped the 
right way up, filled his lungs and, before Harry could stop him, 

screamed, ATTACK! ATTACK! ANOTHER ATTACK! NO MORTAL OR GHOST IS SAFE! RUN FOR YOUR LIVES! 
ATTAAAACK! Crash  crash  crash  door after door flew open along the corridor and people flooded out. For several long minutes, there 
was a scene of such confusion that
 Justin was in danger of being 
squashed and people kept standing in Nearly Headless Nick. Harry 
found himself pinned against the wa
ll as the teachers shouted for 
quiet. Professor McGonagall came running, followed by her own 
class, one of whom still had blac
k-and-white-striped hair. She used 
her wand to set off a loud bang, w
hich restored silence, and ordered everyone back into their classes. No sooner had the scene cleared 
somewhat than Ernie the Hufflepuff 
arrived, panting, on the scene. 
Caught in the act
! Ernie yelled, his face
 stark white, pointing 
his finger dramatically at Harry. That will do, Macmillan! said Professor McGonagall sharply. 
Peeves was bobbing overhead, no
w grinning wickedly, surveying 
the scene; Peeves always loved ch
aos. As the teachers bent over 
Justin and Nearly Headless Nick, examining them, Peeves broke 
into song: 
 Oh, Potter, you rotter, oh, what have you done, Youre killing off students, you think its good fun
   Thats enough, Peeves! bark
ed Professor McGonagall, and 
Peeves zoomed away backward, wi
th his tongue out at Harry. 
CHAPTER  ELEVEN   204  Justin was carried up to the hosp
ital wing by Professor Flitwick 
and Professor Sinistra of the As
tronomy department, but nobody seemed to know what to do for Nearly Headless Nick. In the end, 
Professor McGonagall conjured a la
rge fan out of thin air, which 
she gave to Ernie with instructions
 to waft Nearly Headless Nick 
up the stairs. This Ernie did, fann
ing Nick along like a silent black 
hovercraft. This left Harry and 
Professor McGonagall alone to-gether. 
This way, Potter, she said. 
Professor, said Harry at on
ce, I swear I didnt  
This is out of my hands, Potter, said Professor McGonagall 
curtly. 
They marched in silence around 
a corner and she stopped before 
a large and extremely ugly stone gargoyle. 
Lemon drop! she said. This was evidently a password, because 
the gargoyle sprang suddenly to li
fe and hopped aside as the wall 
behind him split in two. Even fu
ll of dread for what was coming, Harry couldnt fail to be amazed. 
Behind the wall was a spiral stair-
case that was moving smoothly upward, like an escalator. As he and 
Professor McGonagall stepped onto it, Harry heard the wall thud 
closed behind them. They rose upward in circles, higher and 
higher, until at last, slightly dizzy, Harry saw a gleaming oak door ahead, with a brass knocker in the shape of a griffin. 
He knew now where he was being taken. This must be where Dumbledore lived. C H A P T E R  T W E L V E   205  THE POLYJUICE POTION 
   hey stepped off the stone staircase at the top, and Professor 
McGonagall rapped on the door. It opened silently and they 
entered. Professor McGonagall told
 Harry to wait and left him there, alone. 
Harry looked around. One thing was certain: of all the teachers 
offices Harry had visited so far this year, Dumbledores was by far 
the most interesting. If he hadnt 
been scared out of his wits that he 
was about to be thrown out of 
school, he would have been very 
pleased to have a chance to look around it. 
It was a large and beautiful circular room, full of funny little 
noises. A number of curious silver instruments stood on spindle-legged tables, whirring and emitting
 little puffs of smoke. The walls 
were covered with portraits of old headmasters and headmistresses, 
all of whom were snoozing gently in their frames. There was also an 
enormous, claw-footed desk, and, sitting on a shelf behind it, a 
shabby, tattered wi
zards hat  the 
Sorting Hat.
 T CHAPTER  TWELVE  206  Harry hesitated. He cast a wary eye around the sleeping witches and wizards on the walls. Surely it couldnt hurt if he took the hat 
down and tried it on again? Just to see . . . just to make sure it had 
put him in the right House  
He walked quietly around the desk
, lifted the hat from its shelf, 
and lowered it slowly onto his head. It was much too large and 
slipped down over his eyes, just as it had done the last time hed put 
it on. Harry stared at the black in
side of the hat, waiting. Then a 
small voice said in his ear, Bee
 in your bonnet, Harry Potter? 
Er, yes, Harry muttered. Er  sorry to bother you  I 
wanted to ask  Youve been wondering whether 
I put you in the right House, 
said the hat smartly. Yes . . . you were particularly difficult to place. 
But I stand by what I said befo
re  Harrys heart leapt  you would
 have done well in Slytherin  
Harrys stomach plummeted. He grabbed the point of the hat and pulled it off. It hung limply in his hand, grubby and faded. Harry pushed it back onto its shelf, feeling sick. 
Youre wrong, he said aloud to the still and silent hat. It didnt 
move. Harry backed away, watching it. Then a strange, gagging 
noise behind him made him wheel around. 
He wasnt alone after all. Standi
ng on a golden perch behind the door was a decrepit-looking bird that resembled a half-plucked turkey. Harry stared at it and the bird looked balefully back, mak-ing its gagging noise again. Harry thought it looked very ill. Its eyes 
were dull and, even as Harry watched, a couple more feathers fell 
out of its tail. Harry was just thinking
 that all he needed was for Dumbledores  
 THE POLYJUICE POTION  207  pet bird to die while he was alone in the office with it, when the bird 
burst into flames. 
Harry yelled in shock and backed 
away into the desk. He looked 
feverishly around in case there wa
s a glass of water somewhere but couldnt see one; the bird, meanwhile, had become a fireball; it gave 
one loud shriek and next second
 there was nothing but a smolder-
ing pile of ash on the floor. The office door opened. Dumbledore came in, looking very 
somber. Professor, Harry gasped. Your bird  I couldnt do any-
thing  he just 
caught fire  
To Harrys astonishme
nt, Dumbledore smiled. 
About time, too, he said. He
s been looking dreadful for days; 
Ive been telling him to get a move on. 
He chuckled at the stunned look on Harrys face. 

Fawkes is a phoenix, Harry. Phoenixes burst into flame when 
it is time for them to die and are reborn from the ashes. Watch 
him . . . Harry looked down in time to see a tiny, wrinkled, newborn bird 
poke its head out of the ashes. It was quite as ugly as the old one. 
Its a shame you had to see him on a Burning Day, said 
Dumbledore, seating himself behin
d his desk. Hes really very handsome most of the time, wond
erful red and gold plumage. Fas-
cinating creatures, phoenixes. They can carry immensely heavy 
loads, their tears have healing powers, and they make highly 
faith-
ful pets. 
In the shock of Fawkes catching 
fire, Harry had forgotten what 
he was there for, but it all came ba
ck to him as Dumbledore settled  
 CHAPTER  TWELVE  208  himself in the high chair behind th
e desk and fixed Harry with his penetrating, light-blue stare. 
Before Dumbledore could speak another word, however, the 
door of the office flew open with an almighty bang and Hagrid burst in, a wild look in his eyes, 
his balaclava perched on top of his 
shaggy black head and the dead 
rooster still swinging from his 
hand. It wasn Harry, Professor Dumbledor
e! said Hagrid urgently. I was talkin ter him 
seconds
 before that kid was found, he never had 
time, sir  
Dumbledore tried to say something, but Hagrid went ranting 
on, waving the rooster around in his agitation, sending feathers 
everywhere. 
 it cantve bin him, Ill swea
r it in front o the Ministry o Magic if I have to  
Hagrid, I   yehve got the 
wrong boy, sir, I know Harry never  
Hagrid! said Dumbledore loudly. I do 
not think that Harry at-tacked those people. Oh, said Hagrid, the rooster fall
ing limply at his side. Right. 
Ill wait outside then, Headmaster. 
And he stomped out looking embarrassed. You dont think it was me, Pro
fessor? Harry repeated hopefully as Dumbledore brushed rooster feathers off his desk. 
No, Harry, I dont, said Du
mbledore, though his face was somber again. But I stil
l want to talk to you. 
Harry waited nervously while Dumbledore considered him, the 
tips of his long fingers together. 
 THE POLYJUICE POTION  209  I must ask you, Harry, whether there is anything youd like to 
tell me, he said gently. Anything at all. 
Harry didnt know what to say. 
He thought of Malfoy shouting, 
Youll be next, Mudbloods! and of the Polyjuice Potion simmer-ing away in Moaning Myrtles ba
throom. Then he thought of the disembodied voice he had heard twice and remembered what Ron 
had said: Hearing voices no one else can hear isnt a good sign, even in 
the wizarding world.
 He thought, too, about what everyone was 
saying about him, and his growing dread that he was somehow con-nected with Salazar Slytherin. . . . No, said Harry. There isn
t anything, Professor. . . .  The double attack on Justin and Nearly Headless Nick turned what had hitherto been nervousness into real panic. Curiously, it 
was Nearly Headless Nicks fate that seemed to worry people most. What could possibly do that to a ghost? people asked each other; what terrible power could harm
 someone who was already dead? There was almost a stampede to 
book seats on the Hogwarts Ex-
press so that students could go home for Christmas. 
At this rate, well be the only ones left
, Ron told Harry and 
Hermione. Us, Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle. What a jolly holiday 
its going to be. 
Crabbe and Goyle, who always 
did whatever Malfoy did, had signed up to stay over the holidays, too. But Harry was glad that 

most people were leaving. He was 
tired of people skirting around him in the corridors, as though he
 were about to sprout fangs or 
spit poison; tired of al
l the muttering, pointing, and hiss
ing as he passed. 
 CHAPTER  TWELVE  210  Fred and George, however, found all this very funny. They went 
out of their way to march ahea
d of Harry down the corridors, shouting, Make way for the Heir of Slytherin, seriously evil wiz-
ard coming through. . . . 
Percy was deeply disapproving of this behavior. 

It is 
not
 a laughing matter, he said coldly. 
Oh, get out of the way, Percy, said Fred. Harrys in a hurry. 
Yeah, hes off to the Chamber of 
Secrets for a cup of tea with his 
fanged servant, said
 George, chortling. Ginny didnt find it amusing either. 

Oh, dont,
 she wailed every time Fred asked Harry loudly who he was planning to attack next, or when George pretended to ward 
Harry off with a large clove 
of garlic when they met. 
Harry didnt mind; it made him
 feel better that Fred and 
George, at least, thought the idea of his being Slytherins heir was 

quite ludicrous. But their antics seemed to be aggravating Draco 

Malfoy, who looked increasingly sour each time he saw them at it. 
Its because hes bursting
 to say its really him, said Ron know-
ingly. You know how he hates anyone beat
ing him at anything, 
and youre getting all the credit for his dirty work. 
Not for long, said Hermione 
in a satisfied tone. The Poly-
juice Potions nearly ready. Well be
 getting the truth out of him any 
day now.  At last the term ended, and a si
lence deep as the snow on the 
grounds descended on the castle. 
Harry found it peaceful, rather than gloomy, and enjoyed the fact that he, Hermione, and the 
Weasleys had the run of Gryffindor Tower, which meant they could  
 THE POLYJUICE POTION  211  play Exploding Snap loudly without bothering anyone, and prac-
tice dueling in private. Fred, Ge
orge, and Ginny had chosen to stay at school rather than visit Bill in Egypt with Mr. and Mrs. Weasley. 
Percy, who disapproved of what he termed their childish behavior, 
didnt spend much time in the 
Gryffindor common room. He had already told them pompously that 
he was only staying over Christ-mas because it was his duty as a prefect to support the teachers dur-

ing this troubled time. 
Christmas morning dawned, cold
 and white. Harry and Ron, 
the only ones left in their dormi
tory, were woken very early by Hermione, who burst in, fully dressed and carrying presents for them both. 
Wake up, she said loudly, pullin
g back the curtains at the win-dow. Hermione  youre not supposed to be in here  said Ron, 
shielding his eyes against the light. 
Merry Christmas to you, too, 
said Hermione, throwing him 
his present. Ive been up for nearly an hour, adding more lace-
wings to the potion. Its ready. 
Harry sat up, suddenly wide awake. 
Are you sure? 
Positive, said Hermione, shirting
 Scabbers the rat so that she 
could sit down on the end of Rons four-poster. If were going to 

do it, I say it should be tonight. 
At that moment, Hedwig swoope
d into the room, carrying a very small package in her beak. Hello, said Harry happily as sh
e landed on his bed. Are you 
speaking to me again?  CHAPTER  TWELVE  212  She nibbled his ear in an affectionate sort of way, which was a far 
better present than the one that she had brought him, which 
turned out to be from the Dursle
ys. They had sent Harry a tooth-
pick and a note telling him to find 
out whether hed be able to stay 
at Hogwarts for the summer vacation, too. 
The rest of Harrys Christmas presents were far more satisfac-
tory. Hagrid had sent him a large 
tin of treacle toffee, which Harry 
decided to soften by the fire before eating; Ron had given him a 
book called Flying with the Cannons, a book of interesting facts 
about his favorite Quidditch team
, and Hermione had bought him 
a luxury eagle-feather quill. Harry opened the last present to find a 
new, hand-knitted sweater from Mr
s. Weasley and a large plum 
cake. He read her card with a fresh surge of guilt, thinking about 

Mr. Weasleys car (which hadnt been seen since its crash with the 
Whomping Willow), and the bout of rule-breaking he and Ron 
were planning next. 
 No one, not even someone dreading taking Polyjuice Potion later, 
could fail to enjoy Christmas dinner at Hogwarts. 
The Great Hall looked magnificent. Not only were there a dozen frost-covered Christmas trees an
d thick streamers of holly and 

mistletoe crisscrossing the ceiling, but enchanted snow was falling, 
warm and dry, from the ceiling. Dumbledore led them in a few of his favorite carols, Hagrid boom
ing more and more loudly with every goblet of eggnog he cons
umed. Percy, who hadnt noticed 
that Fred had bewitched his prefect badge so that it now read Pin-
head, kept asking them all what they were sniggering at. Harry 

didnt even care that Draco Malfoy was making loud, snide remarks  
 THE POLYJUICE POTION  213  about his new sweater from the Slytherin table. With a bit of luck, 
Malfoy would be getting his come
uppance in a fe
w hours time. 
Harry and Ron had barely finished their third helpings of 
Christmas pudding when Hermione
 ushered them out of the hall to finalize their plans for the evening. 
We still need a 
bit of the people youre changing into, said 
Hermione matter-of-factly, as thou
gh she were sending them to the 

supermarket for laundry detergent. And obviously, itll be best if 
you can get something of Crabbes and Goyles; theyre Malfoys 
best friends, hell tell them anything. And we also need to make 
sure the real Crabbe and Goyle can
t burst in on us while were in-
terrogating him. 
Ive got it all worked out, she went on smoothly, ignoring 
Harrys and Rons stupefied faces.
 She held up two plump choco-
late cakes. Ive filled these with a simple Sleeping Draught. All you 
have to do is make sure Crabbe
 and Goyle find them. You know how greedy they are, theyre bo
und to eat them. Once theyre 
asleep, pull out a few of their hairs and hide them in a broom closet. 
Harry and Ron looked incred
ulously at each other. 
Hermione, I dont think  
That could go seriously wrong  
But Hermione had a steely glint in
 her eye not unlike the one Professor McGonagall sometimes had. 
The potion will be useless without Crabbes and Goyles hair, 
she said sternly. You do 
want to investigate Malfoy, dont you? 
Oh, all right, all right, said Harry. But what about you? 
Whose hair are you ripping out? 

 CHAPTER  TWELVE  214  Ive already got mine! said Hermione brightly, pulling a tiny 
bottle out of her pocket and showin
g them the single hair inside it. 
Remember Millicent Bulstrode wrestling with me at the Dueling 
Club? She left this on my robes wh
en she was trying to strangle me! 
And shes gone home for Christmas  so Ill just have to tell the 
Slytherins Ive deci
ded to come back. 
When Hermione had bustled off to check on the Polyjuice Po-
tion again, Ron turned to Har
ry with a doom-la
den expression. 
Have you ever heard of a plan where so many things could go 
wrong?  But to Harrys and Rons utter amazement, stage one of the opera-

tion went just as smoothly as Hermione had said. They lurked in 
the deserted entrance hall after Ch
ristmas tea, waiting for Crabbe 
and Goyle who had remained alone at the Slytherin table, shovel-
ing down fourth helpings of trifle. Harry had perched the choco-

late cakes on the end of the bani
sters. When they spotted Crabbe and Goyle coming out of the 
Great Hall, Harry and Ron hid 
quickly behind a suit of ar
mor next to the front door. 
How thick can you get? Ron whispered ecstatically as Crabbe 
gleefully pointed out the cakes to Goyle and grabbed them. Grin-
ning stupidly, they stuffed the ca
kes whole into their large mouths. 
For a moment, both of them chewed
 greedily, looks of triumph on their faces. Then, without the smallest change of expression, they 

both keeled over backward onto the floor. 
By far the hardest part was hiding them in the closet across the 
hall. Once they were safely stow
ed among the buckets and mops, 
Harry yanked out a couple of the bristles th
at covered Goyles fore- 
 THE POLYJUICE POTION  215  head and Ron pulled out several of Crabbes hairs. They also stole 
their shoes, because their own we
re far too small for Crabbe- and Goyle-size feet. Then, still stunned 
at what they had just done, they 
sprinted up to Moanin
g Myrtles bathroom. 
They could hardly see for the thick black smoke issuing from the 
stall in which Hermione was stirring the cauldron. Pulling their robes up over their faces, Harry and 
Ron knocked softly on the door. 
Hermione? 
They heard the scrape of the 
lock and Hermione emerged, 
shiny-faced and looking anxious. Behind her they heard the 
gloop gloop of the bubbling, glutinous potion. Three glass tumblers stood ready on the toilet seat. 
Did you get them? Hermione asked breathlessly. 
Harry showed her Goyles hair. 
Good. And I sneaked these spare robes out of the laundry, Hermione said, holding up a sma
ll sack. Youll need bigger sizes 
once youre Crabbe and Goyle. 
The three of them stared into th
e cauldron. Close up, the potion looked like thick, dark mud, bubbling sluggishly. 
Im sure Ive done everything right, said Hermione, nervously rereading the splotched page of Moste Potente Potions. It looks like 
the book says it should . . . once
 weve drunk it, well have exactly 
an hour before we change
 back into ourselves. Now what? Ron whispered. 
We separate it into three glasses and add the hairs. 
Hermione ladled large dollops of the potion into each of the 
glasses. Then, her hand trembling, she shook Millicent Bulstrodes 
hair out of its bottle 
into the first glass.  CHAPTER  TWELVE  216  The potion hissed loudly like a bo
iling kettle and frothed madly. A second later, it had turn
ed a sick sort of yellow. 
Urgh  essence of Millicent Buls
trode, said Ron, eyeing it 
with loathing. Bet it
 tastes disgusting. 
Add yours, then, said Hermione. 
Harry dropped Goyles hair into the middle glass and Ron put Crabbes into the last one. Both 
glasses hissed and 
frothed: Goyles turned the khaki color of a booger
, Crabbes a dark, murky brown. Hang on, said Harry as Ron and Hermione reached for their 
glasses. Wed better not all drink them in here. . . . Once we turn 

into Crabbe and Goyle we wont fit. And Millicent Bulstrodes no 

pixie. 
Good thinking, said Ron, unlocking the door. Well take sep-arate stalls. 
Careful not to spill a drop of 
his Polyjuice Potion, Harry slipped 
into the middle stall. 
Ready? he called. 
Ready, came Rons and Hermiones voices. 
One  two  three  
Pinching his nose, Harry drank 
the potion down in two large 
gulps. It tasted like
 overcooked cabbage. 
Immediately, his insides started 
writhing as though hed just 
swallowed live snakes  doubled up, he wondered whether he was 
going to be sick  then a burnin
g sensation spread rapidly from 
his stomach to the very ends of hi
s fingers and toes  next, bring-
ing him gasping to all fours, came 
a horrible melting feeling, as the 
skin all over his body bubbled li
ke hot wax  and before his eyes, 
his hands began to grow, the fingers thickened, the nails broadened,  
 THE POLYJUICE POTION  217  the knuckles were bulging like bolts  his shoulders stretched 
painfully and a prickling on his fo
rehead told him that hair was 
creeping down toward his eyebrows
  his robes ripped as his chest expanded like a barrel bursting its hoops  his feet were agony in 

shoes four sizes too small  
As suddenly as it had started, everything stopped. Harry lay 
facedown on the stone-cold floor, li
stening to Myrtle gurgling mo-
rosely in the end toilet. With diff
iculty, he kicked off his shoes and stood up. So this was what it felt 
like, being Goyle. His large hand trembling, he pulled off his old robes, which were hanging a foot 
above his ankles, pulled on the spare ones, and laced up Goyles 
boatlike shoes. He reached up to brush his hair out of his eyes and 
met only the short growth of wiry bristles, low on his forehead. 

Then he realized that his glasses were clouding his eyes because 
Goyle obviously didnt need them 
 he took them off and called, 
Are you two okay? Goyles low rasp of a voice issued from his 
mouth. 
Yeah, came the deep grunt 
of Crabbe from his right. 
Harry unlocked his door and stepped in front of the cracked 
mirror. Goyle stared back at hi
m out of dull, deepset eyes. Harry scratched his ear. So did Goyle. Rons door opened. They stared at 
each other. Except that he 
looked pale and shocked, Ron was indistinguishable from Crabbe, 
from the pudding-bowl haircut to the long, gorilla arms. 
This is unbelievable, said Ron, approaching the mirror and 
prodding Crabbes flat nose. Unbelievable. Wed better get going, said Ha
rry, loosening the watch that 
was cutting into Goyles thick wrist.
 Weve still got to find out  
 CHAPTER  TWELVE  218  where the Slytherin common room is. I only hope we can find 
someone to follow . . . 
Ron, who had been gazing at Harry, said, You dont know how 
bizarre it is to see Goyle thinking. He banged on Hermiones door. Cmon, we need to go  
A high-pitched voice answered him. 
I  I dont think Im going to co
me after all. You go on with-
out me. Hermione, we know Millicent Bulstrodes ugly, no ones going 
to know its you  
No  really  I dont think Ill come. You two hurry up, 
youre wasting time  
Harry looked at Ron, bewildered. 

That looks more like Goyle, said Ron. Thats how he looks 
every time a teacher asks him a question. 
Hermione, are you okay? sa
id Harry through the door. 
Fine  Im fine  go on  
Harry looked at his watch. Five 
of their precious sixty minutes had already passed. 
Well meet you back he
re, all right? he said. 
Harry and Ron opened the door of
 the bathroom carefully, checked that the coast was clear, and set off. 
Dont swing your arms like that, Harry muttered to Ron. 
Eh? 
Crabbe holds them sort
 of stiff. . . . 
Hows this? Yeah, thats better. . . . 

They went down the marble stairc
ase. All they ne
eded now was  
 THE POLYJUICE POTION  219  a Slytherin that they could follow to the Slytherin common room, 
but there was no
body around. Any ideas? muttered Harry. 
The Slytherins always come up 
to breakfast from over there, 
said Ron, nodding at the entrance to the dungeons. The words had barely left his mouth when a girl
 with long, curl
y hair emerged 
from the entrance. 
Excuse me, said Ron, hurrying up
 to her. Weve forgotten the way to our common room. 
I beg your pardon? said the girl stiffly. 
Our common room? Im a Ravenclaw. 
She walked away, looking suspiciously back at them. 
Harry and Ron hurried down the stone steps into the darkness, 
their footsteps echoing particularly loudly as Crabbes and Goyles 

huge feet hit the floor, feeling that this wasnt going to be as easy as 
they had hoped. The labyrinthine passages were deserted. They walked deeper 
and deeper under the school, consta
ntly checking their watches to 
see how much time they had left. 
After a quarter of an hour, just 
when they were getting desperat
e, they heard a 
sudden movement 
ahead. Ha! said Ron excitedly. Theres one of them now! The figure was emerging from a side room. As they hurried 
nearer, however, their hearts sank. It
 wasnt a Slytherin, it was Percy. 
Whatre you doing down here? said Ron in surprise. 

Percy looked affronted. 
That, he said stiffly, is none
 of your business. Its Crabbe, 
isnt it? 
 CHAPTER  TWELVE  220  Wh  oh, yeah, said Ron. 
Well, get off to your dormitories
, said Percy sternly. Its not 
safe to go wandering around 
dark corridors these days. 
You are, Ron pointed out. I, said Percy, drawing himself up, am a prefect. Nothings 
about to attack 
me. A voice suddenly echoed behind Harry and Ron. Draco Malfoy 
was strolling toward them, and for the first time in his life, Harry 
was pleased to see him. 
There you are, he drawled, looking at them. Have you two 
been pigging out in th
e Great Hall all this 
time? Ive been looking for you; I want to show you something really funny. 
Malfoy glanced witheringly at Percy. And whatre you do
ing down here, Weasley? he sneered. 
Percy looked outraged. 

You want to show a bit more respect to a school prefect! he 
said. I dont like your attitude! 
Malfoy sneered and motioned for Harry and Ron to follow him. 
Harry almost said something apol
ogetic to Percy but caught him-
self just in time. He and Ron hurried after Malfoy, who said as they 
turned into the next passage, That Peter Weasley  
Percy, Ron correcte
d him automatically. 
Whatever, said Malfoy. Ive noticed him sneaking around a 
lot lately. And I bet I know what hes up to. He thinks hes going to 
catch Slytherins heir single-handed. 
He gave a short, derisive laug
h. Harry and Ron exchanged ex-
cited looks. 
Malfoy paused by a stretch 
of bare, damp stone wall.  THE POLYJUICE POTION  221  Whats the new password ag
ain? he said to Harry. 
Er  said Harry. Oh, yeah  pure-blood! said Malfoy, not listening, and a stone door concealed in the wall slid open. Malfoy marched through it, and Harry an
d Ron followed him. 
The Slytherin common room was a long, low underground 
room with rough stone walls and ceiling from which round, green-
ish lamps were hanging on chains. A fire was crackling under an elaborately carved mantelpiece ah
ead of them, and several Slyth-erins were silhouetted around it in high-backed chairs. 
Wait here, said Malfoy to Harry and Ron, motioning them to 
a pair of empty chairs set back fr
om the fire. Ill go and get it  
my fathers just sent it to me  
Wondering what Malfoy was going to show them, Harry and 
Ron sat down, doing their best to look at home. 
Malfoy came back a minute late
r, holding what looked like a 
newspaper clipping. He thru
st it under Rons nose. 
Thatll give you a laugh, he said. 
Harry saw Ron's eyes widen in sh
ock. He read the clipping quickly, gave a very forced laugh, and handed it to Harry. 
It had been clip
ped out of the Daily Prophet,
 and it said:  INQUIRY AT THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC Arthur Weasley, Head of the Misuse of Muggle Ar-
tifacts Office, was today fined fifty Galleons for be-
witching a Muggle car. Mr. Lucius Malfoy, a go
vernor of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft an
d Wizardry, where the  
 CHAPTER  TWELVE  222  enchanted car crashed earlie
r this year, called today for Mr. Weasleys resignation. 
Weasley has brought the Ministry into disre-
pute, Mr. Malfoy told our reporter. He is clearly 
unfit to draw up our laws and his ridiculous Mug-
gle Protection Act should be scrapped immedi-ately. Mr. Weasley was unavailable for comment, al-
though his wife told reporters to clear off or shed 
set the family ghoul on them. 
 Well? said Malfoy impatiently as Harry handed the clipping back to him. Dont yo
u think its funny? 
Ha, ha, said Harry bleakly. 
Arthur Weasley loves Muggles so much he should snap his 
wand in half and go and join them, said Malfoy scornfully. 
Youd never know the Weasleys were purebloods, the way they behave. Rons  or rather, Crabbes  
face was contorted with fury. 
Whats up with you, Cr
abbe? snapped Malfoy. 
Stomachache, Ron grunted. 
Well, go up to the hospital wing and give all those Mudbloods a kick from me, said Malfoy, snickering. You know, Im surprised the Daily Prophet hasnt reported all these 
attacks yet, he went on thoughtfully. I suppose Dumbledores trying to hush it all up. 
Hell be sacked if it doesnt stop
 soon. Fathers always said old Dumbledores the worst th
ing thats ever happened to this place. 
He loves Muggle-borns. A decent
 headmaster would neverve let 
slime like that Creevey in. THE POLYJUICE POTION  223  Malfoy started taking pictures with an imaginary camera and 
did a cruel but accurate impression of Colin: Potter, can I have 
your picture, Potter? Can I have your autograph? Can I lick your 
shoes, please, Potter? 
He dropped his hands and looked at Harry and Ron. Whats the 
matter with you two? 
Far too late, Harry and Ron forc
ed themselves to laugh, but 
Malfoy seemed satisfied; perhaps Crabbe and Goyle were always 
slow on the uptake. Saint Potter, the Mudbloods friend, said Malfoy slowly. Hes another one with no proper wizard feeling, or he wouldnt go 

around with that jumped-up Granger Mudblood. And people think hes
 Slytherins heir! 
Harry and Ron waited with bated 
breath: Malfoy was surely sec-
onds away from telling them it was 
him  but then  I wish I knew who it is, said Malfoy petulantly. I could help 
them. Rons jaw dropped so that Crabbe
 looked even more clueless 
than usual. Fortunately, Malfoy didnt notice, and Harry, thinking 
fast, said, You must have some idea whos behind 
it all. . . . You know I havent, Goyle, how many times do I have to tell 
you? snapped Malfoy. And Father wont tell me 
anything
 about 
the last time the Chamber was opened
 either. Of course, it was fifty 
years ago, so it was before his ti
me, but he knows all about it, and 
he says that it was all kept quiet 
and itll look suspicious if I know too much about it. But I know one thing  last time the Cham-
ber of Secrets was opened, a Mudblood died.
 So I bet its a matter 
of time before one of thems killed this time. . . . I hope its 
Granger, he said with relish. 
CHAPTER  TWELVE  224  Ron was clenching Crabbes gigantic
 fists. Feeling that it would 
be a bit of a giveaway if Ron punched Malfoy, Harry shot him a 
warning look and said, Dyou know if the person who opened the 
Chamber last time was caught? Oh, yeah . . . whoever it was was expelled, said Malfoy. 
Theyre probably 
still in Azkaban. 
Azkaban? said 
Harry, puzzled. 
Azkaban  
the wizard prison,
 Goyle, said Malfoy, looking at him in disbelief. Honestly, if yo
u were any slower, youd be going backward. He shifted restlessly in his chair and said, Father says to keep 
my head down and let the Heir of Slytherin get on with it. He says 
the school needs ridding of all the Mudblood filth, but not to get 
mixed up in it. Of course, hes got a lot on his plate at the moment. 
You know the Ministry
 of Magic raided our manor last week? 
Harry tried to force Goyles dull face into a look of concern. 
Yeah . . . said Malfoy. Luckily, they didnt find much. Fathers 
got some very
 valuable Dark Arts stuff. But luckily, weve got our 
own secret chamber under th
e drawing-room floor  
Ho! said Ron. Malfoy looked at him. So did Harry. Ron blushed. Even his hair 
was turning red. His nose was also slowly lengthening  their 
hour was up, Ron was turning back into himself, and from the look 
of horror he was suddenly givi
ng Harry, he must be, too. 
They both jumped to their feet. 
Medicine for my stomach, Ron 
grunted, and without further ado they sprinted the length 
of the Slytherin common room, hurled themselves at the stone wall, and dashed up the passage, 

hoping against hope that Malfoy hadnt noticed anything. Harry 
THE POLYJUICE POTION  225  could feel his feet slipping around 
in Goyles huge shoes and had to hoist up his robes as he shrank; th
ey crashed up the steps into the 
dark entrance hall, which was full
 of a muffled pounding coming 
from the closet where theyd locked Crabbe and Goyle. Leaving 
their shoes outside the closet door, they sprinted in their socks up the marble staircase toward Moaning Myrtles bathroom. 
Well, it wasnt a complete wast
e of time, Ron panted, closing 
the bathroom door behind them. I know we still havent found 
out whos doing the attacks, but Im going to write to Dad tomor-

row and tell him to check under 
the Malfoys drawing room. Harry checked his face in the cr
acked mirror. He was back to normal. He put his glasses on as Ron hammered on the door of Hermiones stall. 
Hermione, come out, weve 
got loads to tell you  

Go away! Hermione squeaked. Harry and Ron looked at each other. 

Whats the matter? said Ron. You
 must be back to normal by 
now, we are  But Moaning Myrtle glided suddenly through the stall door. Harry had never seen her looking so happy. 
Ooooooh, wait till you see, she said. Its awful
  
They heard the lock slide back and Hermione emerged, sob-bing, her robes pulled
 up over her head. 
Whats up? said Ron uncertai
nly. Have you still got Milli-cents nose or something? 
Hermione let her robes fall an
d Ron backed into the sink. 
Her face was covered in black fur. Her eyes had turned yellow and there were long, pointed ea
rs poking through her hair. 
It was a c-cat hair! she howled. M-Millicent Bulstrode CHAPTER  TWELVE  226  m-must have a cat! And the p-poti
on isnt supposed to be used for 
animal transformations! 
Uh-oh, said Ron. 
Youll be teased something 
dreadful,
 said Myrtle happily. 
Its okay, Hermione, said Harry quickly. Well take you up to 
the hospital wing. Madam Pomfrey never asks too many ques-

tions. . . . It took a long time to persua
de Hermione to leave the bath-
room. Moaning Myrtle sped them on their way with a hearty guf-faw. Wait till everyone finds out youve got a 
tail! C H A P T E R  T H I R T E E N   227  THE VERY SECRET DIARY 
   ermione remained in the hospital wing for several weeks. 
There was a flurry of rumo
r about her disappearance when the rest of the school arrived back from their Christmas hol-
idays, because of course everyone
 thought that she had been at-
tacked. So many students filed pa
st the hospital wing trying to 
catch a glimpse of her that Mada
m Pomfrey took ou
t her curtains 
again and placed them around Hermiones bed, to spare her the 
shame of being seen 
with a furry face. 
Harry and Ron went to visit her every evening. When the new 
term started, they brought her each days homework. 
If Id sprouted whiskers, Id take a break from work, said Ron, 
tipping a stack of b
ooks onto Hermiones bedside table one 
evening. Dont be silly, Ron, Ive got to 
keep up, said Hermione briskly. 
Her spirits were greatly improved by 
the fact that all the hair had   H CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  228  gone from her face and her eyes were
 turning slowly back to brown. 
I dont suppose youve got any new leads? she added in a whisper, 
so that Madam Pomfrey couldnt hear her. 
Nothing, said Harry gloomily. 
I was so sure it was Malfoy, said Ron, for about the hundredth 
time. 
Whats that? asked Harry, pointing to something gold sticking 
out from under Hermiones pillow. Just a get well card, said Hermio
ne hastily, trying to poke it 
out of sight, but Ron was too quick for her. He pulled it out, 
flicked it open, 
and read aloud: 
To Miss Granger, wishing you a speedy recovery, from your con-cerned teacher, Professor Gilderoy Lockhart, Order of Merlin, Third 
Class, Honorary Member of the Dark Force Defense League, and five-

time winner of
 Witch Weeklys 
Most-Charming-Smile Award.
 Ron looked up at Hermione, disgusted. 
You sleep with 
this under your 
pillow? But Hermione was spared answering by Madam Pomfrey sweep-
ing over with her even
ing dose of medicine. Is Lockhart the smarmiest bloke 
youve ever met, or what? 
Ron said to Harry as they left 
the infirmary and started up the 
stairs toward Gryffindor Tower. Snape had given them so much 
homework, Harry thought he was like
ly to be in the sixth year be-
fore he finished it. Ron was just saying he wished he had asked 
Hermione how many rat tails you we
re supposed to add to a Hair-
Raising Potion when an angry 
outburst from the floor above 
reached their ears. Thats Filch, Harry muttered as they hurried up the stairs and 
paused, out of sight, listening hard. 
THE  VERY  SECRET  DIARY  229  You dont think someone elses
 been attacked? said Ron 
tensely. 
They stood still, their heads inclined toward Filchs voice, which sounded quite hysterical. 
 even more work for me! Mopping all night, like I havent got 
enough to do! No, this
 is the final straw, Im going to Dumbledore
  
His footsteps receded along the out-of-sight corridor and they heard a distan
t door slam. They poked their heads around the corner. Filch had clearly 
been manning his usual lookout post
: They were once again on the spot where Mrs. Norris had been 
attacked. They saw at a glance what Filch had been shouting about. A great flood of water 
stretched over half the corridor, and it looked as though it was still 
seeping from under the door of Moaning Myrtles bathroom. Now that Filch had stopped shouting, they could hear Myrtles wails 

echoing off the bathroom walls. 
Now whats up with her? said Ron. 
Lets go and see, said Harry, and holding their robes over their ankles they stepped through the great wash of water to the door bearing its 
out of order
 sign, ignored it as always, and entered. 
Moaning Myrtle was crying, if possible, louder and harder than ever before. She seemed to be hiding down her usual toilet. It was 
dark in the bathroom because the candles had been extinguished in the great rush of water that had left
 both walls and floor soaking wet. Whats up, Myrtle? said Harry. Whos that? glugged Myrtle mi
serably. Come to throw some-
thing else at me? Harry waded across to her stall and said, Why would I throw something at you? 
CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  230  Dont ask me, Myrtle shouted,
 emerging with a wave of yet more water, which splashed onto 
the already sopping floor. Here I 
am, minding my own business, and someone thinks its funny to 
throw a book at me. . . . 
But it cant hurt you if someone throws something at you, 
said Harry, reasonably. I mean, 
itd just go right through you, 
wouldnt it? 
He had said the wrong thing. Myrtle puffed herself up and shrieked, Lets all throw 
books at Myrtle, because she 
cant feel it! 
Ten points if you can get it throug
h her stomach! Fifty points if it 
goes through her head! Well, ha, 
ha, ha! What a lovely game, I 
dont 
think! Who threw it at you, anyway? asked Harry. 

I dont know. . . . I was just si
tting in the U-bend, thinking 
about death, and it fell right thro
ugh the top of my head, said 
Myrtle, glaring at them. Its over there, it go
t washed out. . . . Harry and Ron looked under the 
sink where Myrtle was point-
ing. A small, thin book lay there. It had a shabby black cover and 
was as wet as everything else in the bathroom. Harry stepped for-
ward to pick it up, but Ron suddenly flung out an arm to hold 
him back. What? said Harry. 
Are you crazy? said Ron. It could be dangerous.
 Dangerous? said Harry, laughing. C
ome off it, how could it be dangerous? Youd be surprised, said Ron, who was looking apprehensively at the book. Some of the book
s the Ministrys confiscated  
Dads told me  there was one that
 burned your ey
es out. And   THE  VERY  SECRET  DIARY  231  everyone who read 
Sonnets of a Sorcerer spoke in limericks for the rest of their lives. And some old witch in Bath had a book that you 
could never stop reading! You just had to wander around with your nose in it, trying to do ev
erything one-handed. And  
All right, Ive got the point, said Harry. 
The little book lay on the fl
oor, nondescript and soggy. Well, we wont find out unless we
 look at it, he said, and he 
ducked around Ron and picked it up off the floor. 
Harry saw at once that it was a diary, and the faded year on the cover told him it was fifty years ol
d. He opened it eagerly. On the 
first page he could just make out the name T. M. Riddle in 
smudged ink. Hang on, said Ron, who had approached cautiously and was 
looking over Harrys shoulder. I 
know that name. . . . T. M. Rid-dle got an award for special services to the school fifty years ago. 
How on earth dyou know that? said Harry in amazement. 
Because Filch made me polish his
 shield about fifty times in de-
tention, said Ron resentfully. T
hat was the one I burped slugs all 
over. If youd wiped slime off a name for an hour, youd remember it, too. Harry peeled the wet pages apart. 
They were comp
letely blank. There wasnt the faintest trace of
 writing on any of them, not even 
Auntie Mabels birthday,
 or dentist, half-past three.
 He never wrote in it, sa
id Harry, disappointed. I wonder why someone wanted to
 flush it away? said Ron cu-riously. Harry turned to the back cover of the book and saw the printed 
name of a variety store on Vauxhall Road, London. 
 CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  232  He mustve been Muggle-born, 
said Harry thoughtfully. To 
have bought a diary from Vauxhall Road. . . . 
Well, its not much use to yo
u, said Ron. He dropped his voice. Fifty points if you can get it through Myrtles nose. 
Harry, however, pocketed it. 
 Hermione left the hospital wing, 
de-whiskered, tail-less, and fur-
free, at the beginning of February
. On her first evening back in Gryffindor Tower, Harry showed her T. M. Riddles diary and told her the story of how 
they had found it. 
Oooh, it might have hidden powers, said Hermione enthusi-
astically, taking the diary and looking at it closely. 
If it has, its hiding them very we
ll, said Ron. Maybe its shy. 
I dont know why you don
t chuck it, Harry. 
I wish I knew why someone did try to chuck it, said Harry. I 
wouldnt mind knowing how Riddle got an award for special ser-
vices to Hogwarts either. 
Couldve been anything, said Ron. Maybe he got thirty 
O.W.L.s or saved a teacher from the giant squid. Maybe he mur-
dered Myrtle; that wouldve done everyone a favor. . . . But Harry could tell from the arrested look on Hermiones face that she was thinking what he was thinking. What? said Ron, looking from one to the other. 

Well, the Chamber of Secrets wa
s opened fifty years ago, wasnt 
it? he said. Thats 
what Malfoy said. 
Yeah . . . said Ron slowly. 
And this diary
 is fifty years old, said Hermione, tapping it ex-
citedly. 
 THE  VERY  SECRET  DIARY  233  So? 
Oh, Ron, wake up, snapped Hermione. We know the person 
who opened the Chamber last time was expelled 
fifty years ago. We know T. M. Riddle got an award for special services to the school 
fifty years ago.
 Well, what if Riddle 
got his special award for 
catch-ing the Heir of Slytherin? His diary would probably tell us every-
thing  where the Chamber is, and 
how to open it, and what sort 
of creature lives in it  the pe
rson whos behind the attacks this 
time wouldnt want that lying around, would they? 
Thats a brilliant theory, Hermione, said Ron, with just one tiny little flaw. Theres nothing written in his diary.
 But Hermione was pulling he
r wand out of her bag. 
It might be invisible ink! she whispered. 
She tapped the diary th
ree times and said, Aparecium
! Nothing happened. Undaunted, Hermione shoved her hand back 
into her bag and pulled out what appeared to be a bright red eraser. 
Its a Revealer, I got it in Diagon Alley, she said. She rubbed hard on 
January first.
 Nothing happened. 
Im telling you, theres nothing to find in there, said Ron. 
Riddle just got a diary for Christmas and couldnt be bothered 
filling it in. 
 Harry couldnt explain, even to hims
elf, why he didnt just throw 

Riddles diary away. The fact was that even though he knew
 the di-
ary was blank, he kept absentmindedly picking it up and turn-
ing the pages, as though it were 
a story he wanted to finish. And 
while Harry was sure he had never heard the name T. M. Riddle 
before, it still seemed to mean some
thing to him, almost as though  
 CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  234  Riddle was a friend hed had when he was very small, and had half-
forgotten. But this was absurd. 
Hed never had friends before 
Hogwarts, Dudley had made sure of that. 
Nevertheless, Harry was determined to find out more about 
Riddle, so next day at break, he he
aded for the trophy room to ex-
amine Riddles special award, accompanied by an interested Her-
mione and a thoroughly unconvin
ced Ron, who told them hed 
seen enough of the trophy room to last him a lifetime. 
Riddles burnished gold shield wa
s tucked away in a corner cab-
inet. It didnt carry details of wh
y it had been given to him (Good 
thing, too, or itd be even bigger and Id still be polishing it, said 
Ron). However, they did find Ridd
les name on an old Medal for Magical Merit, and on a 
list of old Head Boys. He sounds like Percy, said Ron, wrinkling his nose in disgust. 
Prefect, Head Boy . . . prob
ably top of every class  
You say that like its a bad thing, said Hermione in a slightly 
hurt voice. 
 The sun had now begun to shine weak
ly on Hogwarts again. Inside 
the castle, the mood had grown more hopeful. There had been no more attacks since those on Justin
 and Nearly Headless Nick, and 
Madam Pomfrey was pleased to report that the Mandrakes were 
becoming moody and secretive, meaning that they were fast leav-ing childhood. 
The moment their acne clears up, theyll be ready for repotting 
again, Harry heard her telling Fi
lch kindly one afternoon. And 
after that, it wont be long until were cutting them up and stewing 

them. Youll have Mrs. Norris back in no time. 
 THE  VERY  SECRET  DIARY  235  Perhaps the Heir of Slytherin had lost his or her nerve, thought 
Harry. It must be ge
tting riskier and riskie
r to open the Chamber 
of Secrets, with the school so alert and suspicious. Perhaps the monster, whatever it was, was ev
en now settling itself down to hi-
bernate for another fifty years. . . . 
Ernie Macmillan of Hufflepuff didn
t take this cheerful view. He 
was still convinced that Harry wa
s the guilty one, that he had 
given himself away at the Duelin
g Club. Peeves wasnt helping 
matters; he kept popping up in the crowded corridors singing Oh, Potter, you rotter . . . now wi
th a dance routine to match. 
Gilderoy Lockhart seemed to think he himself had made the at-
tacks stop. Harry overheard him telling Professor McGonagall so while the Gryffindors were lining up for Transfiguration. 
I dont think therell be any mo
re trouble, Minerva, he said, 
tapping his nose knowingly and winking. I think the Chamber 

has been locked for good this time. The culprit must have known 

it was only a matter of time before
 I caught him. Rather sensible to 
stop now, before I ca
me down hard on him. You know, what the school needs now is a morale-booster. Wash away the memories of last term! I wont say any more just 
now, but I think I know 
just the thing. . . . He tapped his nose again and strode off. Lockharts idea of a morale-boos
ter became clear at breakfast 
time on February fourteenth. Har
ry hadnt had much sleep because 
of a late-running Quidditch practi
ce the night before, and he hur-ried down to the Great Hall, slightly late. He thought, for a mo-
ment, that hed walked 
through the wrong doors. The walls were all covered with la
rge, lurid pink flowers. Worse  
 CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  236  still, heart-shaped confetti was fa
lling from the pale blue ceiling. 
Harry went over to the Gryffindor table, where Ron was sitting 
looking sickened, and Hermione seemed to have been overcome with giggles. Whats going on? Harry asked them, sitting down and wiping 
confetti off his bacon. 
Ron pointed to the teachers table, apparently too disgusted to 
speak. Lockhart, wearing lurid pink robes to match the decora-

tions, was waving for silence. The teachers on either side of him were looking stony-faced. From where he sat, Harry could see a muscle going in Professor McGo
nagalls cheek. Snape looked as 
though someone had just fed him 
a large beaker of Skele-Gro. 
Happy Valentines Day! Lockha
rt shouted. And may I thank the forty-six people who have so far sent me cards! Yes, I have taken 
the liberty of arranging this litt
le surprise for you all  and it doesnt end here! 
Lockhart clapped his hands and through the doors to the entrance hall marched a dozen surly-
looking dwarfs. Not just any dwarfs, however. Lockhart had them all wearing golden wings and 
carrying harps. My friendly, card-carrying cupi
ds! beamed Lockhart. They 
will be roving around the school today delivering your valentines! And the fun doesnt stop here! Im 
sure my colleagues will want to 
enter into the spirit of the occa
sion! Why not ask Professor Snape 
to show you how to whip up a Love Potion! And while youre at it, 
Professor Flitwick knows more about Entrancing Enchantments 
than any wizard Ive ever met, the sl
y old dog! Professor Flitwick buried his face in his hands. Snape was look- 
 THE  VERY  SECRET  DIARY  237  ing as though the first person to
 ask him for a Love Potion would 
be force-fed poison. 
Please, Hermione, tell me you we
rent one of the forty-six, said 
Ron as they left the Great Hall fo
r their first lesson. Hermione sud-
denly became very interested in searching her bag for her schedule 
and didnt answer. 
All day long, the dwarfs kept barg
ing into their classes to deliver 
valentines, to the annoyance of the teachers, and late that after-noon as the Gryffindors were walking upstairs for Charms, one of 
the dwarfs caught up with Harry. 
Oy, you! Arry Potter! shouted a particularly grim-looking 
dwarf, elbowing people out of the way to get to Harry. 
Hot all over at the thought of being given a valentine in front of 
a line of first years, which happe
ned to include Ginny Weasley, 
Harry tried to escape. The dwarf, 
however, cut his way through the crowd by kicking peoples shins, and reached him before hed gone 
two paces. 
Ive got a musical message to deli
ver to Arry Potter in person, he said, twanging his harp in
 a threatening sort of way. 
Not here, Harry hissed, trying to escape. 
Stay still! grunted the dwarf, grabbing hold of Harrys bag and 
pulling him back. 
Let me go! Harry snarled, tugging. 
With a loud ripping noise, his ba
g split in two. His books, wand, 
parchment, and quill spilled onto the floor and his ink bottle 
smashed over everything. 
Harry scrambled around, trying to pick it all up before the dwarf started singing, causing somethin
g of a holdup in
 the corridor.  CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  238  Whats going on here? came the cold, drawling voice of Draco 
Malfoy. Harry started stuffing everything feverishly into his ripped 
bag, desperate to get away before Malfoy could hear his musical 
valentine. Whats all this commotion? sa
id another familiar voice as 
Percy Weasley arrived. 
Losing his head, Harry tried to 
make a run for it, but the dwarf 
seized him around the knees and br
ought him crashing to the floor. 
Right, he said, sitting on Harry
s ankles. Here is your singing valentine:  His eyes are as green as a fresh pickled toad, His hair is as dark as a blackboard. 
I wish he was mine, hes really divine, 
The hero who conquered the Dark Lord.  Harry would have given all the gold in Gringotts to evaporate on 
the spot. Trying valiantly to laugh along with everyone else, he got 
up, his feet numb from the weight of the dwarf, as Percy Weasley did 
his best to disperse the crowd, some of whom were crying with mirth. 
Off you go, off you go, the bell rang five minutes ago, off to 
class, now, he said, shooing some of the younger students away. 
And
 you, Malfoy  Harry, glancing over, saw Malfoy stoop and snatch up some-
thing. Leering, he showed it to
 Crabbe and Goyle, and Harry real-ized that hed go
t Riddles diary. 
Give that back, said Harry quietly. 
Wonder what Potters written in this? said Malfoy, who obvi- 
 THE  VERY  SECRET  DIARY  239  ously hadnt noticed the year on
 the cover and thought he had 
Harrys own diary. A hush fell ov
er the onlookers. Ginny was star-
ing from the diary to Ha
rry, looking terrified. 
Hand it over, Malfoy, said Percy sternly. 
When Ive had a look, said 
Malfoy, waving the diary taunt-ingly at Harry. Percy said, As a school prefect 
 but Harry had lost his tem-
per. He pulled out hi
s wand and shouted, Expelliarmus! and just 
as Snape had disarmed Lockhart, so Malfoy found the diary shoot-ing out of his hand into the air. Ron, grinning broadly, caught it. 
Harry! said Percy loudly. No magic in the corridors. Ill have 
to report this, you know! 
But Harry didnt care, he was one-up on Malfoy, and that was 
worth five points from Gryffindor any day. Malfoy was looking fu-

rious, and as Ginny pa
ssed him to enter her classroom, he yelled 
spitefully after her, I dont 
think Potter liked your valentine much! 
Ginny covered her face with he
r hands and ran into class. 
Snarling, Ron pulled out his wa
nd, too, but Harry pulled him 
away. Ron didnt need to spend the whole of Charms belching 
slugs. It wasnt until they had reached 
Professor Flitwicks class that Harry noticed something rather odd about Riddles diary. All his other books were drenched in scarlet ink. The diary, however, was 
as clean as it had been before the ink bottle had smashed all over it. 
He tried to point this out to Ron, but Ron was having trouble with 
his wand again; large purple bubb
les were blossoming out of the end, and he wasnt much in
terested in anything else. 
 CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  240           Harry went to bed before anyone else in his dormitory that night. 
This was partly because he didnt think he could stand Fred and 
George singing, His eyes are as green as a fresh pickled toad one 

more time, and partly because he wanted to examine Riddles diary 
again, and knew that Ron thought he was wasting his time. 
Harry sat on his four-poster and flicked through the blank pages, not one of which had a trac
e of scarlet ink on it. Then he 
pulled a new bottle out of his bedsid
e cabinet, dipped his quill into 
it, and dropped a blot onto the first page of the diary. The ink shone brightly on the paper for a second and then, as 
though it was being sucked into 
the page, vanished. Excited, Harry loaded up his quill a 
second time and wrote, My name is Harry 
Potter. The words shone momentarily on 
the page and they, too, sank 
without trace. Then, at 
last, something happened. 
Oozing back out of the page, in his very own ink, came words 
Harry had never written. 
Hello, Harry Potter. My name is
 Tom Riddle. How did you come 
by my diary
? These words, too, faded away, but not before Harry had started 
to scribble back. Someone tried to flush it down a toilet. 

He waited eagerly for Riddles reply. 
Lucky that I recorded my memories in some more lasting way than 
ink. But I always knew that there 
would be those who would not want 
this diary read. What do you mean? Harry scrawled, blotting the page in his excitement. 
THE  VERY  SECRET  DIARY  241  I mean that this diary holds memo
ries of terrible things. Things 
that were covered up. Things that happened at Hogwarts School of 
Witchcraft and Wizardry.
 Thats where I am now, Harry wrote quickly. Im at Hog-
warts, and horrible stuffs been happening. Do you know anything 
about the Chamber of Secrets? His heart was hammering. Riddles reply came quickly, his writ-
ing becoming untidier, as though 
he was hurrying to tell all he knew. 
Of course I know about the Chambe
r of Secrets. In my day, they 
told us it was a legend, that it did 
not exist. But this was a lie. In my 
fifth year, the Chamber was opened and the monster attacked several students, finally killing one. I caught the person whod opened the 
Chamber and he was expelled. But the headmaster, Professor Dippet, 

ashamed that such a thing had happened at Hogwarts, forbade me to tell the truth. A story was given out that the girl had died in a freak ac-
cident. They gave me a nice, shiny, engraved trophy for my trouble and 
warned me to keep my mouth shut. 
But I knew it could happen again. The monster lived on, and the one who had the power to release it was not imprisoned.
 Harry nearly upset his ink bottle in his hurry to write back. 
Its happening again now. There have been three attacks and no 
one seems to know whos behind them. Who was it last time? 
I can show you, if you like, came Riddles reply. You dont have 
to take my word for it. I can take you inside my memory of the night 
when I caught him.
 Harry hesitated, his quill suspended over the diary. What did 
Riddle mean? How could he be taken inside somebody elses mem-ory? He glanced nervously at the door to the dormitory, which was CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  242  growing dark. When he looked ba
ck at the diary,
 he saw fresh 
words forming. Let me show you. Harry paused for a fraction of a second and then wrote two 
letters. OK. 
The pages of the diary began to bl
ow as though caught in a high 
wind, stopping halfway through 
the month of June. Mouth hang-
ing open, Harry saw th
at the little square for June thirteenth seemed to have turned into a minuscule television screen. His 

hands trembling slightly, he raised 
the book to press his eye against the little window, and before he 
knew what was happening, he was 
tilting forward; the window was widening, he felt his body leave his 

bed, and he was pitched headfirst through the opening in the page, 
into a whirl of color and shadow. 
He felt his feet hit solid ground
, and stood, shaking, as the 
blurred shapes around him came suddenly into focus. He knew immediately where he was. This circular room with the 
sleeping portraits was Dumbledores office  but it wasnt 
Dumbledore who was sitting behin
d the desk. A wizened, frail-
looking wizard, bald except for a few wisps of white hair, was read-ing a letter by candleli
ght. Harry had never seen this man before. 
Im sorry, he said shakily. I didnt mean to butt in  
But the wizard didnt look up. 
He continued to read, frowning slightly. Harry drew nearer to his desk and stammered, Er  Ill 
just go, shall I? 
Still the wizard ignored him. He didnt seem even to have heard 
him. Thinking that the wizard might be deaf, Harry raised his 

voice. THE  VERY  SECRET  DIARY  243  Sorry I disturbed you. Ill 
go now, he half-shouted. 
The wizard folded up the letter with a sigh, stood up, walked past Harry without glancing at him,
 and went to draw the curtains 
at his window. The sky outside the window was ruby-red; it seemed to be sun-
set. The wizard went back to the desk, sat down, and twiddled his 
thumbs, watching the door. Harry looked around the office. No Fawkes the phoenix  no 
whirring silver contraptions. T
his was Hogwarts as Riddle had known it, meaning that this unknown wizard was headmaster, not 

Dumbledore, and he, Harry, was lit
tle more than a phantom, com-pletely invisible to the pe
ople of fifty years ago. 
There was a knock on the office door. 

Enter, said the old wiza
rd in a feeble voice. 
A boy of about sixteen entered, taking off his pointed hat. A sil-
ver prefects badge was glinting on
 his chest. He was much taller 
than Harry, but he, to
o, had jet-black hair. 
Ah, Riddle, said the headmaster. 
You wanted to see me, Profes
sor Dippet? said Riddle. He 
looked nervous. 
Sit down, said Dippet. Ive ju
st been reading the letter you 
sent me. 
Oh, said Riddle. He sat down, gripping his hands together 
very tightly. 
My dear boy, said Dippet kindly, I cannot possibly let you stay at school over the summer. Surely you want to go home for the 
holidays? 
No, said Riddle at once. Id 
much rather stay at Hogwarts 
than go back to that  to that  
CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  244  You live in a Muggle orphanage 
during the holidays, I believe? 
said Dippet curiously. 
Yes, sir, said Riddle
, reddening slightly. 
You are Muggle-born? 
Half-blood, sir, said Riddle. Muggle father, witch mother. 
And are both your parents  ? 
My mother died just after I was 
born, sir. They told me at the 
orphanage she lived just long eno
ugh to name me  Tom after my 
father, Marvolo after my grandfather. Dippet clucked his tongue sympathetically. 

The thing is, Tom, he sighed, special arrangements might 
have been made for you, but in 
the current circumstances. . . . You mean all these attacks, sir? said Riddle, and Harrys heart 
leapt, and he moved closer, scared of missing anything. 
Precisely, said the headmaster. My dear boy, you must see 
how foolish it would be of me to allow you to remain at the castle 

when term ends. Particularly in light of the recent tragedy . . . the 
death of that poor little girl. . . . You will be safer by far at your or-
phanage. As a matter of fact, 
the Ministry of Magic is even now 
talking about closing the school. We
 are no nearer locating the  
er  source of all this
 unpleasantness. . . . Riddles eyes 
had widened. Sir  if the person was caug
ht  if it al
l stopped  
What do you mean? said Dippet with a squeak in his voice, 
sitting up in his chair. Riddle,
 do you mean you know something 
about these attacks? 
No, sir, said Riddle quickly. 
But Harry was sure it was the same sort of no that he himself had given Dumbledore. THE  VERY  SECRET  DIARY  245  Dippet sank back, looking faintly disappointed. 
You may go, Tom. . . . 
Riddle slid off his chair and slouched out of the room. Harry fol-lowed him. 
Down the moving spiral staircase they went, emerging next to 
the gargoyle in the darkening co
rridor. Riddle stopped, and so did Harry, watching him. Harry could tell that Riddle was doing some serious thinking. He was biting his lip, his forehead fur-

rowed. 
Then, as though he had suddenly reached a decision, he hurried off, Harry gliding noiselessly behind him. They didnt see another 
person until they reached the entran
ce hall, when a tall wizard with 
long, sweeping auburn hair and a 
beard called to Riddle from the marble staircase. 
What are you doing, wanderin
g around this late, Tom? 
Harry gaped at the wizard. He was none other than a fifty-year-
younger Dumbledore. 
I had to see the headmaster, sir, said Riddle. 
Well, hurry off to bed, said
 Dumbledore, giving Riddle ex-
actly the kind of penetrating stare Harry knew so well. Best not to 
roam the corridors these 
days. Not since . . . 
He sighed heavily, bade Riddle good night, and strode off. Rid-dle watched him walk out of sight and then, moving quickly, 
headed straight down the stone st
eps to the dungeons, with Harry 
in hot pursuit. 
But to Harrys disappointment, 
Riddle led him not into a hid-
den passageway or a secret tunnel
 but to the very dungeon in which 
Harry had Potions with Snape. Th
e torches hadnt been lit, and 
when Riddle pushed the door almost closed, Harry could only just CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  246  see him, standing stock-still by the door, watching the passage out-side. 
It felt to Harry that they were there for at least an hour. All he 
could see was the figure of Riddle at the door, staring through the crack, waiting like a statue. And just when Harry had stopped feel-
ing expectant and tense and started 
wishing he could return to the 
present, he heard something move beyond the door. Someone was creeping along the 
passage. He heard whoever it 
was pass the dungeon where he and Riddle were hidden. Riddle, quiet as a shadow, edged through the door and followed, Harry tip-toeing behind him, forgetting 
that he couldnt be heard. 
For perhaps five minu
tes they followed the footsteps, until Rid-
dle stopped suddenly, his head in
clined in the direction of new 
noises. Harry heard a door creak open, and then someone speaking in a hoarse whisper. 
Cmon . . . gotta get yeh outta here. . . . Cmon now . . . in the box . . . 
There was something familiar
 about that voice. . . . 
Riddle suddenly jumped around the corner. Harry stepped 
out behind him. He could see th
e dark outline of a huge boy 
who was crouching in front of an open door, a very large box next to it. Evening, Rubeus, said Riddle sharply. 
The boy slammed the door shut and stood up. What yer doin do
wn here, Tom? 
Riddle stepped closer. 
Its all over, he said. Im goin
g to have to turn you in, Rubeus. 
Theyre talking about closing Hogwarts if the attacks dont stop. 
 THE  VERY  SECRET  DIARY  247  What dyeh  
I dont think you meant to kill anyone. But monsters dont 
make good pets. I suppose you just let it out for exercise and  It never killed no one! said th
e large boy, backing against the closed door. From behind him, Harry could hear a funny rustling and clicking. 
Come on, Rubeus, said Riddle, 
moving yet closer. The dead 
girls parents will be here tomorrow. The least Hogwarts can do is 
make sure that the thing that killed their daughter is slaugh-
tered. . . . 
It wasnt him! roared the boy,
 his voice echoing in the dark 
passage. He wouldn! He never! 
Stand aside, said Riddle, drawing out his wand. 

His spell lit the corridor with a sudden flaming light. The door behind the large boy flew open with such force it knocked him into 

the wall opposite. And out of it came something that made Harry 

let out a long, piercing scream unheard by anyone  
A vast, low-slung, hairy body and a tangle of black legs; a gleam 
of many eyes and a pair of razor-sharp pincers  Riddle raised his 
wand again, but he was too late. 
The thing bowled him over as it 
scuttled away, tearing up the corridor and out of sight. Riddle scrambled to his feet, looking after it; he raised his wand, but the 
huge boy leapt on him, seized his wand, and threw him back down, 
yelling, NOOOOOOO! The scene whirled, the darkness became complete; Harry felt 
himself falling and, with a crash, he landed spread-eagled on his 

four-poster in the Gryffindor dormitory, Riddles diary lying open 
on his stomach. 
 CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  248  Before he had had time to regain his breath, the dormitory door opened and Ron came in. There you are, he said. 
Harry sat up. He was sweating and shaking. Whats up? said 
Ron, looking at him with concern. 
It was Hagrid, Ron. Hagrid op
ened the Chamber of Secrets 
fifty years ago. 
C H A P T E R  F O U R T E E N   249  CORNELIUS FUDGE    arry, Ron, and Hermione had always known that Hagrid 
had an unfortunate liking for large and monstrous crea-tures. During their first year at Hogwarts he had tried to raise a 

dragon in his little wooden house, and it would be a long time 
before they forgot the giant, three-headed dog hed christened 
Fluffy. And if, as a boy, Hagrid
 had heard that a monster was hid-den somewhere in the castle, Harry 
was sure hed have gone to any lengths for a glimpse of it. Hed 
probably thought it was a shame 
that the monster had been cooped 
up so long, and thought it de-served the chance to stretch its many legs; Harry could just imag-
ine the thirteen-year-old Hagrid trying to fit a leash and collar on 
it. But he was equally certain that
 Hagrid would never have meant 
to kill anybody. Harry half wished he hadnt foun
d out how to work Riddles di-
ary. Again and again Ron and He
rmione made him recount what  
 H CHAPTER  FOURTEEN  250  hed seen, until he was heartily sick of telling them and sick of the 
long, circular conversations that followed. 
Riddle might have got the wrong person, said Hermione. 
Maybe it was some other monster that was attacking people. . . . 
How many monsters dyou think this place can hold? Ron 
asked dully. We always knew Hagrid had been expelled, said Harry miser-
ably. And the attacks mustve stopped after Hagrid was kicked out. Otherwise, Riddle wouldnt have got his award. 
Ron tried a different tack. 
Riddle does
 sound like Percy  who asked him to squeal on Hagrid, anyway? But the monster had 
killed someone, Ron, said Hermione. 
And Riddle was going to go back to some Muggle orphanage if 
they closed Hogwarts, said Harr
y. I dont blame him for wanting 
to stay here. . . . You met Hagrid down Knockturn Alley, didnt you, Harry? 
He was buying a Flesh-Eating 
Slug Repellent, said Harry 
quickly. The three of them fell silent. After a long pause, Hermione 
voiced the knottiest question 
of all in a hesitant voice. 
Do you think we should go and 
ask Hagrid about it all? 
Thatd be a cheerful visit, said Ron. Hello, Hagrid. Tell us, 
have you been setting anything mad and hairy loose in the castle 
lately? 
In the end, they decided that they would not say anything to 
Hagrid unless there was another attack, and as more and more days went by with no whisper from the 
disembodied voice, they became  
 CORNELIUS  FUDGE  251  hopeful that they would never need
 to talk to him about why he 
had been expelled. It was now nearly four months since Justin and Nearly Headless Nick had been Petrified, and nearly everybody 
seemed to think that the attacker, whoever it was, had retired for good. Peeves had finally got bored of his Oh, Potter, you rotter 
song, Ernie Macmillan asked Harry qu
ite politely to pass a bucket of leaping toadstools in Herbolog
y one day, and in March several 
of the Mandrakes threw a loud and raucous party in greenhouse 

three. This made Profe
ssor Sprout very happy. 
The moment they start trying to
 move into each others pots, 
well know theyre fully mature, 
she told Harry. Then well be 
able to revive those poor people in the hospital wing. 
 The second years were given some
thing new to think about during 
their Easter holidays. The time ha
d come to choose their subjects 
for the third year, a matter that He
rmione, at least, took very seri-
ously. It could affect our whole future, she told Harry and Ron as 
they pored over lists of new subje
cts, marking them with checks. I just want to give up Potions, said Harry. 
We cant, said Ron gloomily. W
e keep all our old subjects, or 
Idve ditched Defense Against the Dark Arts. But thats very important! said Hermione, shocked. 
Not the way Lockhart 
teaches it, said Ron. I havent learned 
anything from him except no
t to set pixies loose. Neville Longbottom had been sent
 letters from all the witches 
and wizards in his family, all giving him different advice on what to 
choose. Confused and worried, he sa
t reading the subject lists with  
 CHAPTER  FOURTEEN  252  his tongue poking out, asking people whether they thought Arith-
mancy sounded more difficult than the study of Ancient Runes. 
Dean Thomas, who, like Harry, had grown up with Muggles, 

ended up closing his eyes and jabb
ing his wand at the list, then 
picking the subjects it landed on
. Hermione took nobodys advice but signed up for everything. 
Harry smiled grimly to himself at the thought of what Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia would say if he tried to discuss his career 
in wizardry with them. Not that 
he didnt get any guidance: Percy 
Weasley was eager to share his experience. 
Depends where you want to go, Harry, he said. Its never too 
early to think about the future, 
so Id recommend Divination. Peo-ple say Muggle Studies is a soft option, but I personally think wiz-
ards should have a thorough understanding of the non-magical 
community, particularly if theyre thinking of working in close 
contact with them  look at my 
father, he has to deal with Mug-gle business all the time. My brothe
r Charlie was always more of an 
outdoor type, so he went for Care of Magical Creatures. Play to your strengths, Harry. 
But the only thing Harry felt he was really good at was Quid-ditch. In the end, he chose the same new subjects as Ron, feeling 
that if he was lousy at them, at le
ast hed have someone friendly to 
help him. 
 Gryffindors next Quidditch match would be against Hufflepuff. 
Wood was insisting on team practices every night after dinner, so 
that Harry barely had time for anything but Quidditch and home-work. However, the training sessions 
were getting better, or at least  
 CORNELIUS  FUDGE  253  drier, and the evening before Saturdays match he went up to his 
dormitory to drop off his broomstick feeling Gryffindors chances 
for the Quidditch Cup ha
d never been better. 
But his cheerful mood didnt last 
long. At the top of the stairs to the dormitory, he met Neville Longbottom, who was looking 
frantic. 
Harry  I dont kn
ow who did it  
I just found  Watching Harry fearfully, Neville pushed open the door. The contents of Harrys trunk had been thrown everywhere. His 
cloak lay ripped on the floor. The bedclothes had been pulled off 
his four-poster and the drawer ha
d been pulled out of his bedside cabinet, the contents st
rewn over th
e mattress. 
Harry walked over to the bed, openmouthed, treading on a few loose pages of Travels with Trolls. As he and Nevill
e pulled the blan-kets back onto his bed, Ron, 
Dean, and Seamus came in. Dean swore loudly. 
What happened, Harry? 
No idea, said Harry. But Ron was examining Harrys robes. All 
the pockets were hanging out. 
Someones been looking for some
thing, said Ron. Is there 
anything missing? 
Harry started to pick up all his things and throw them into his trunk. It was only as he threw th
e last of the Lock
hart books back 
into it that he realiz
ed what wasnt there. 
Riddles diarys gone, he sa
id in an unde
rtone to Ron. 
What
? Harry jerked his head toward the dormitory door and Ron fol-lowed him out. They hurried down
 to the Gryffindor common  
 CHAPTER  FOURTEEN  254  room, which was half-empty, and 
joined Hermione, who was sit-
ting alone, reading a book called Ancient Runes Made Easy.
 Hermione looked aghast at the news. 
But  only a Gryffindor could have stolen  nobody else 
knows our password  
Exactly, said Harry. 
 They woke the next day to brilliant sunshine and a light, refreshing 

breeze. 
Perfect Quidditch conditions! said Wood enthusiastically at the Gryffindor table, loading the te
ams plates with scrambled eggs. 
Harry, buck up there, you 
need a decent breakfast. 
Harry had been staring down the packed Gryffindor table, won-dering if the new owner of Riddles diary was right in front of his eyes. Hermione had been urging him to report the robbery, but 
Harry didnt like the idea. Hed ha
ve to tell a teacher all about the diary, and how many people knew why Hagrid had been expelled 
fifty years ago? He didnt want to
 be the one who brought it all up again. As he left the Great Hall with Ron and Hermione to go and col-
lect his Quidditch things, another very serious worry was added to Harrys growing list. He had just se
t foot on the marble staircase when he heard it yet again  
Kill this time
 . . . let me rip . . . tear . . . He shouted aloud and Ron and Hermione both jumped away 
from him in alarm. 
The voice! said Harry, looking 
over his shoulder. I just heard 
it again  didnt you? 
 CORNELIUS  FUDGE  255  Ron shook his head, wide-eyed. Hermione, however, clapped a 
hand to her forehead. 
Harry  I think Ive just understood something! Ive got to go to the library! 
And she sprinted away, up the stairs. 
What does she understand? said Harry distractedly, still look-
ing around, trying to tell where the voice had come from. 
Loads more than I do, sa
id Ron, shaking his head. 
But whys she got to 
go to the library? 
Because thats what Hermione does, said Ron, shrugging. 
When in doubt, go to the library. 
Harry stood, irresolute, trying 
to catch the voice again, but people were now emerging from th
e Great Hall behind him, talk-
ing loudly, exiting th
rough the front doors 
on their way to the Quidditch pitch. 
Youd better get moving, said 
Ron. Its nearly eleven  the 
match  
Harry raced up to Gr
yffindor Tower, coll
ected his Nimbus Two 
Thousand, and joined the larg
e crowd swarming across the 
grounds, but his mind was still in 
the castle along with the bodiless 
voice, and as he pulled on his scarlet robes in the locker room, his 
only comfort was that everyone
 was now outside to watch the 
game. 
The teams walked onto the field to tumultuous applause. Oliver 
Wood took off for a warm-up flight around the goal posts; Madam 
Hooch released the balls. The Hufflepuffs, who played in canary 
yellow, were standing 
in a huddle, having a last-minute discussion 
of tactics. 
 CHAPTER  FOURTEEN  256  Harry was just mounting his broom when Professor McGona-
gall came half marching, half running across the pitch, carrying an enormous purple megaphone. 
Harrys heart dropped like a stone. 
This match has been canceled,
 Professor McGonagall called 
through the megaphone, addressing the packed stadium. There were boos and shouts. Oliver Wood, l
ooking devastated, landed and ran toward Professor McGonagall without getting off his broomstick. 
But, Professor! he shouted. Weve got to play  the Cup  
Gryffindor
  Professor McGonagall ignored him and continued to shout through her megaphone: 
All students are to make thei
r way back to the House common 
rooms, where their Heads of Houses will give them further infor-
mation. As quickly as you can, please! 
Then she lowered the megaphone and beckoned Harry over to her. 
Potter, I think youd better come with me. . . . 
Wondering how she could possibly suspect him this time, Harry saw Ron detach himself from the complaining crowd; he came 
running up to them as they set off toward the castle. To Harrys sur-prise, Professor McGona
gall didnt object. 
Yes, perhaps youd better co
me, too, Weasley. . . . Some of the students swarming around them were grumbling 
about the match being canceled; others looked worried. Harry and 
Ron followed Professor McGonagall
 back into the 
school and up 
the marble staircase. But they were
nt taken to anybodys office this 
time. 
 CORNELIUS  FUDGE  257  This will be a bit of a shock, 
said Professor McGonagall in a 
surprisingly gentle voice as they 
approached the infirmary. There 
has been another a
ttack . . . another double attack. Harrys insides did a horrible somersault. Professor McGonagall 
pushed the door open and he and Ron entered. Madam Pomfrey was bending over a sixth-year girl with long, 
curly hair. Harry recognized her as the Ravenclaw theyd acciden-tally asked for directions to th
e Slytherin common room. And on 
the bed next to her was 
 Hermione
! Ron groaned. 
Hermione lay utterly still, 
her eyes open and glassy. 
They were found near the librar
y, said Professor McGonagall. 
I dont suppose either of you can 
explain this? It was on the floor next to them. . . . She was holding up a small, circular mirror. 

Harry and Ron shook their heads, both staring at Hermione. 

I will escort you back to Gryffindor Tower, said Profes-sor McGonagall heavily. I need 
to address the st
udents in any 
case. 
 All students will return to th
eir House common rooms by six 
oclock in the evening. No student 
is to leave the dormitories after 
that time. You will be escorted to 
each lesson by a teacher. No stu-dent is to use the bathroom unaccompanied by a te
acher. All fur-ther Quidditch training and matches are to be postponed. There 
will be no more ev
ening activities. 
The Gryffindors packed inside the common room listened to 
Professor McGonagall in silence. She rolled up the parchment  
 CHAPTER  FOURTEEN  258  from which she had been reading and said in a somewhat choked 
voice, I need hardly add that I have rarely been so distressed. It is likely that the school will be cl
osed unless the culprit behind these 
attacks is caught. I would urge 
anyone who thinks they might know anything about them to come forward. 
She climbed somewhat awkwardly 
out of the portrait hole, and the Gryffindors began talking immediately. 
Thats two Gryffindors down, not counting a Gryffindor ghost, 
one Ravenclaw, and one Hufflepuff, said the Weasley twins friend 
Lee Jordan, counting on his fingers. Havent 
any of the teachers 
noticed that the Slytherins
 are all safe? Isnt it 
obvious all this stuffs 
coming from Slytherin? The 
Heir of Slytherin, the monster of Slytherin  why dont th
ey just chuck all the 
Slytherins out? he 
roared, to nods and scattered applause. Percy Weasley was sitting in a chair behind Lee, but for once he didnt seem keen to ma
ke his views heard. He
 was looking pale and stunned. 
Percys in shock, George told Harry quietly. That Ravenclaw 
girl  Penelope Clearwater  shes a prefect. I dont think he 
thought the monster would dare attack a prefect.
 But Harry was only half-listening. He didnt seem to be able to 
get rid of the picture of Hermione,
 lying on the hospital bed as 
though carved out of stone. And if the culprit wasnt caught soon, 
he was looking at a lifetime back
 with the Dursleys. Tom Riddle had turned Hagrid in because he 
was faced with the prospect of a Muggle orphanage if the school closed. Harry now knew exactly 
how he had felt. 
Whatre we going to do? said Ron quietly in Harrys ear. 
Dyou think they suspect Hagrid? 
CORNELIUS  FUDGE  259  Weve got to go and talk to him, said Harry, making up his mind. I cant believe its him this time, but if he set the monster 
loose last time hell know how to get inside the Chamber of Secrets, 

and thats a start. But McGonagall said weve got to stay in our tower unless were 
in class  
I think, said Harry, more quietly 
still, its time to get my dads 
old cloak out again.  Harry had inherited just one thing 
from his father: a long and sil-
very Invisibility Cloak. It was their only chance of sneaking out of 

the school to visit Hagrid with
out anyone knowing about it. They went to bed at the usual time, wa
ited until Neville, Dean, and Sea-
mus had stopped discussing the Chamber of Secrets and finally 
fallen asleep, then got up, dressed 
again, and threw the cloak over 
themselves. The journey through the dark and deserted castle corridors 
wasnt enjoyable. Harry, who had wa
ndered the castle at night sev-
eral times before, had never seen 
it so crowded after sunset. Teach-ers, prefects, and ghosts were ma
rching the corridors in pairs, 
staring around for any unusual ac
tivity. Their Invisibility Cloak 
didnt stop them making any noise, and there was a particularly 
tense moment when Ron stubbed his 
toe only yards from the spot 
where Snape stood standing guard. Thankfully, Snape sneezed at almost exactly the moment Ron swor
e. It was with relief that they 
reached the oak front doors and eased them open. 
It was a clear, starry night. They
 hurried toward the lit windows 
of Hagrids house and pulled off 
the cloak only when they were 
right outside his front door. CHAPTER  FOURTEEN  260  Seconds after they had knocked, Hagrid flung it open. They 
found themselves face-to-face with
 him aiming a crossbow at them. 
Fang the boarhound barked loudly behind him. 
Oh, he said, lowering the weapon and staring at them. 
Whatre you two doin here? 
Whats that for? said Harry, poin
ting at the crossbow as they 
stepped inside. Nothin  nothin   Hagrid 
muttered. Ive bin expectin  
doesn matter  Sit down 
 Ill make tea  He hardly seemed to know what
 he was doing. He nearly extin-guished the fire, spilling water from the kettle on it, and then 
smashed the teapot with a nerv
ous jerk of hi
s massive hand. Are you okay, Hagrid? said Harry. Did you hear about 
Hermione? 
Oh, I heard, all righ, said Hagrid, a slight break in his voice. 
He kept glancing nervously at the windows. He poured them 
both large mugs of boiling water 
(he had forgotten to add tea bags) 
and was just putting a slab of frui
tcake on a plate when there was a 
loud knock on the door. Hagrid dropped the fruitcake. Harry and Ron exchanged panic-stricken looks, then threw the Invisibility Cloak back over them-
selves and retreated into a corner
. Hagrid checked that they were 
hidden, seized his crossbow, and flung open his door once more. Good evening, Hagrid. 

It was Dumbledore. He entered, looking deadly serious, and was followed by a second, very odd-looking man. The stranger had rumpled gray hair and an anxious expression, and was wearing a strange mixture of clothes: a pinstriped suit, a  
 CORNELIUS  FUDGE  261  scarlet tie, a long black cloak, an
d pointed purple boots. Under his arm he carried a lime-green bowler. 
Thats Dads boss! Ron breathed
. Cornelius Fudge, the Min-
ister of Magic! 
Harry elbowed Ron hard 
to make him shut up. 
Hagrid had gone pale and sweaty
. He dropped into one of his chairs and looked from Dumbledore to Cornelius Fudge. Bad business, Hagrid, said Fu
dge in rather clipped tones. 
Very bad business. Had to come. Four attacks on Muggle-borns. 
Thingsve gone far enough
. Ministrys got to act. I never, said Hagrid, lookin
g imploringly at Dumbledore. 
You know I never, Professor Dumbledore, sir  
I want it understood, Cornelius, that Hagrid has my full confi-dence, said Dumbledore, frowning at Fudge. 
Look, Albus, said Fudge, uncomfortably. Hagrids records against him. Ministrys got to do something  the school gover-
nors have been in touch  
Yet again, Cornelius, I tell you 
that taking Hagrid away will not 
help in the slightest, said Dumble
dore. His blue eyes were full of a fire Harry had never seen before. 
Look at it from my point of view, said Fudge, fidgeting with his 
bowler. Im under a lot of pressure
. Got to be seen to be doing some-
thing. If it turns out it wasnt Hagrid, hell be back and no more said. 
But Ive got to take him. Got to. Wouldnt be
 doing my duty  Take me? said Hagrid, who was 
trembling. Take me where? 
For a short stretch only, said Fudge, not meeting Hagrids eyes. 
Not a punishment, Hagrid, more a precaution. If someone else is 

caught, youll be let out with a full apology  
 CHAPTER  FOURTEEN  262  Not Azkaban? croaked Hagrid. 
Before Fudge could answer, there was another loud rap on the 
door. Dumbledore answered it. It was Harrys turn for an elbow in the ribs; hed let out 
an audible gasp. Mr. Lucius Malfoy strode into Hagrids hut, swathed in a long 
black traveling cloak, smiling a 
cold and satisfied smile. Fang 
started to growl. Already here, Fudge, he said approvingly. Good, good . . . Whatre you doin here? said Ha
grid furiously. Get outta my 
house! 
My dear man, please believe me, I 
have no pleasure at all in be-
ing inside your  er  dyou call
 this a house? said Lucius Mal-
foy, sneering as he looked around
 the small cabin. I simply called at the school and was told that the headmaster was here. 
And what exactly did you want with me, Lucius? said Dum-
bledore. He spoke politely, but the 
fire was still blazing in his blue 
eyes. 
Dreadful thing, Dumbledore, said Malfoy lazily, taking out a 
long roll of parchment, but the go
vernors feel its time for you to step aside. This is an Order of 
Suspension  youll find all twelve 
signatures on it. Im afraid we fee
l youre losing your touch. How 
many attacks have there been 
now? Two more this afternoon, wasnt it? At this rate, therell be
 no Muggle-borns left at Hogwarts, 
and we all know what an awful loss that would be to the school. 
Oh, now, see here, Lucius, 
said Fudge, looking alarmed, 
Dumbledore suspended  no, no 
 last thing we want just 
now  
 CORNELIUS  FUDGE  263  The appointment  or suspension  of the headmaster is a 
matter for the governors, Fudge, said Mr. Malfoy smoothly. And 
as Dumbledore has failed to
 stop these attacks  
See here, Malfoy, if Dumbledore cant stop them, said Fudge, 
whose upper lip was sweating 
now, I mean to say, who 
can? That remains to be seen, said 
Mr. Malfoy with a nasty smile. 
But as all twelve of us have voted  
Hagrid leapt to his feet, his shaggy black head grazing the ceil-ing. 
An how many did yeh have te
r threaten an blackmail before 
they agreed, Malfoy, eh? he roared. 
Dear, dear, you know, that temper of yours will lead you into 
trouble one of these days, Hagrid,
 said Mr. Malfoy. I would ad-vise you not to shout at the Azka
ban guards like that. They wont 
like it at all. 
Yeh can take Dumbledore! yelled Hagrid, making Fang the 
boarhound cower and whimper in his basket. Take him away, an 
the Muggle-borns won stand a chan
ce! Therell be 
killin next! 
Calm yourself, Hagrid, said 
Dumbledore sharply. He looked at Lucius Malfoy. If the governors want my removal, Lucius, I shall of course step aside  
But  stuttered Fudge. No! growled Hagrid. Dumbledore had not taken his bright blue eyes off Lucius Mal-
foys cold gray ones. 
However, said Dumbledore, speaking very slowly and clearly 
so that none of them could miss a word, you will find that I will  
 CHAPTER  FOURTEEN  264  only truly
 have left this school when 
none here are loyal to me. You 
will also find that help will always
 be given at Hogwarts to those 
who ask for it. For a second, Harry was almost su
re Dumbledores eyes flickered 
toward the corner where he and Ron stood hidden. Admirable sentiments, said Ma
lfoy, bowing. We shall all miss 
your  er  highly individual way of running things, Albus, and 
only hope that your successor will manage to prevent any  ah  
killins. He strode to the cabin door, opened it, and bowed Dumbledore 
out. Fudge, fiddling with his bowler, waited for Hagrid to go ahead 
of him, but Hagrid stood his ground, took a deep breath, and said carefully, If anyone want
ed ter find out some stuff, all theyd have ter do would be ter follow the 
spiders. Thatd lead em right! Thats 
all Im sayin. 
Fudge stared at hi
m in amazement. All right, Im comin, said Ha
grid, pulling on his moleskin 
overcoat. But as he was about to follow Fudge through the door, he stopped again and said loudly, A
n someonell need ter feed Fang 
while Im away. The door banged shut and Ron pulled off the Invisibility Cloak. Were in trouble now, he said hoarsely. No Dumbledore. 
They might as well close the school 
tonight. Therell be an attack a 
day with him gone. 
Fang started howling, scratching at the closed door. C H A P T E R  F I F T E E N   265  ARAGOG 
   ummer was creeping over the gr
ounds around the castle; sky 
and lake alike turned periwinkle blue and flowers large as cab-
bages burst into bloom in the greenhouses. But with no Hagrid vis-ible from the castle windows, striding the grounds with Fang at his 
heels, the scene didnt look right to
 Harry; no better, in fact, than 
the inside of the castle, where 
things were so horribly wrong. 
Harry and Ron had tried to visit Hermione, but visitors were 
now barred from the hospital wing. 
Were taking no more chances, Madam Po
mfrey told them se-verely through a crack in the infirmary door. No, Im sorry, theres 
every chance the attacker might co
me back to finish these people 
off. . . . With Dumbledore gone, fear had spre
ad as never before, so that 
the sun warming the castle walls ou
tside seemed to stop at the mul-
lioned windows. There was barely a face to be seen in the school  

 S CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  266  that didnt look worried and tens
e, and any laughter that rang 
through the corridors sounded 
shrill and unnatural and was quickly stifled. Harry constantly repeated Dumble
dores final words to himself. 
I will only truly have left this school when none here are loyal to me. . . . Help will always be given at Hogwarts to those who ask for it. But what good were these words? Who exactly were they sup-
posed to ask for help, when eve
ryone was just as confused and 
scared as they were? 
Hagrids hint about the spiders 
was far easier to understand  
the trouble was, there didnt seem to
 be a single spider left in the 
castle to follow. Harry looked everywhere he
 went, helped (rather 
reluctantly) by Ron. They were 
hampered, of course, by the fact 
that they werent allowed to wand
er off on their own but had to 
move around the castle in a pack 
with the other Gryffindors. Most of their fellow students seemed 
glad that they were being shep-
herded from class to class by te
achers, but Harry found it very irk-
some. One person, however, seemed to be thoroughly enjoying the at-mosphere of terror and suspicion. Draco Malfoy was strutting 
around the school as though he had just been appointed Head Boy. Harry didnt realize what he was so
 pleased about until the Potions lesson about two weeks after Du
mbledore and Hagrid had left, when, sitting right behind Malfoy, Harry overheard him gloating 
to Crabbe and Goyle. 
I always thought Father might 
be the one who got rid of Dum-bledore, he said, not troubling to keep his voice down. I told you 
he thinks Dumbledores the worst 
headmaster the schools ever  
 ARAGOG  267  had. Maybe well get a decent headmaster now. Someone who 
wont 
want
 the Chamber of Secrets clos
ed. McGonagall wont last 
long, shes only fi
lling in. . . . Snape swept past Harry, making
 no comment about Hermiones 
empty seat and cauldron. 
Sir, said Malfoy loudly. Sir, why dont 
you apply for the head-masters job? 
Now, now, Malfoy, said Snape, though he couldnt suppress a 
thin-lipped smile. Professor Du
mbledore has only been suspended 

by the governors. I daresay hell be back with us soon enough. 
Yeah, right, said Malfoy, smir
king. I expect youd have Fa-thers vote, sir, if you wanted to apply for the job  Ill tell Father 
youre the best teacher here, sir  
Snape smirked as he swept off around the dungeon, fortunately 
not spotting Seamus Finnigan, who was pretending to vomit into 
his cauldron. 
Im quite surprised the Mudbloods havent all packed their bags 
by now, Malfoy went on. Bet you five Galleons the next one dies. 
Pity it wasnt Granger  
The bell rang at that moment, which was lucky; at Malfoys last 
words, Ron had leapt off his stool,
 and in the scramble to collect 
bags and books, his attempts to
 reach Malfoy went unnoticed. 
Let me at him, Ron growled as
 Harry and Dean hung onto his arms. I dont care, I dont need 
my wand, Im going to kill him 
with my bare hands  
Hurry up, Ive got to take you 
all to Herbology, barked Snape 
over the classs heads, and off they marched, with Harry, Ron, and 
Dean bringing up the rear, Ron still 
trying to get loos
e. It was only  
 CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  268  safe to let go of him 
when Snape had seen them out of the castle 
and they were making their way 
across the vegetable patch toward the greenhouses. 
The Herbology class was very su
bdued; there were now two 
missing from their number, Justin and Hermione. 
Professor Sprout set them all to work pruning the Abyssinian 
Shrivelfigs. Harry went to tip an armful of withered stalks onto the 
compost heap and found himself face-to-face with Ernie Macmil-
lan. Ernie took a deep breath and said, very formally, I just want 
to say, Harry, that Im sorry I ever suspected you. I know youd 
never attack Hermione Granger, and I apologize for all the stuff I said. Were all in the same boat now, and, well  
He held out a pudgy ha
nd, and Harry shook it. Ernie and his friend Hannah came to work at the same Shrivelfig 
as Harry and Ron. That Draco Malfoy character, sa
id Ernie, breaking off dead twigs, he seems very pleased ab
out all this, doesnt he? Dyou 
know, I think 
he might be Slytherins heir. 
Thats clever of you, said Ron, who didnt seem to have for-
given Ernie as readily as Harry. 
Do you think its Malfoy, Harry? Ernie asked. 

No, said Harry, so firmly 
that Ernie and Hannah stared. 
A second later, Harr
y spotted something. Several large spiders were scuttling over the ground on the other 
side of the glass, moving in an unnaturally straight line as though taking the shortest route to a prearranged meeting. Harry hit Ron 

over the hand with his pruning shears. 
Ouch
! Whatre you  
 ARAGOG  269  Harry pointed out the spiders, following their progress with his eyes screwed up against the sun. 
Oh, yeah, said Ron, trying, and failing, to look pleased. But 
we cant follow
 them now  Ernie and Hannah were listening curiously. 
Harrys eyes narrowed as he focused on the spiders. If they pur-sued their fixed course, there coul
d be no doubt about where they would end up. Looks like theyre heading for the Forbidden Forest. . . . 
And Ron looked even unhappier about that. At the end of the lesson Professor Sprout escorted the class to 
their Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson. Harry and Ron lagged 
behind the others so they could talk out of earshot. Well have to use the Invisibility Cloak again, Harry told Ron. We can take Fang with us. Hes us
ed to going into 
the forest with Hagrid, he might be some help. 
Right, said Ron, who was twir
ling his wand nervously in his 
fingers. Er  arent there  arent there supposed to be were-
wolves in the forest? he added as they took their usual places at the 
back of Lockharts classroom. 
Preferring not to answer that question, Harry said, There are good things in there, too. The centaurs are all right, and the uni-corns . . . 
Ron had never been into the Forbidden Forest before. Harry had 
entered it only once and had 
hoped never to do so again. Lockhart bounded into the room and the class stared at him. 
Every other teacher in the place was looking grimmer than usual, 
but Lockhart appeared nothing short of buoyant. 
 CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  270  Come now, he cried, beaming 
around him. Why all these 
long faces? 
People swapped exasperated looks, but nobody answered. 
Dont you people realize, said
 Lockhart, speaking slowly, as 
though they were all a bit dim, t
he danger has passed! The culprit 
has been taken away  
Says who? said Dean Thomas loudly. 
My dear young man, the Minist
er of Magic wouldnt have 
taken Hagrid if he hadnt been 
one hundred percent sure that he 
was guilty, said Lockhart, in th
e tone of someone explaining that one and one made two. 
Oh, yes he would, said Ron, 
even more loudly than Dean. 
I flatter myself I know a 
touch
 more about Hagrids arrest than 
you do, Mr. Weasley, said Lockha
rt in a self-satisfied tone. 
Ron started to say that he didnt
 think so, somehow, but stopped 
in midsentence when Harry kick
ed him hard under the desk. 
We werent there, remember? Harry muttered. 

But Lockharts disgusting cheeri
ness, his hints that he had al-
ways thought Hagrid was no good, his confidence that the whole business was now at an end, i
rritated Harry so 
much that he 
yearned to throw Gadding with Ghouls
 right in Lockharts stupid face. Instead he contented himself with scrawling a note to Ron: 
Lets do it tonight.
 Ron read the message, swallowed hard, and looked sideways at 
the empty seat usually filled by
 Hermione. The sight seemed to 
stiffen his resolve, and he nodded. 
 The Gryffindor common room was always very crowded these 
days, because from six oclock onward the 
Gryffindors had no-ARAGOG  271  where else to go. They also had plenty to talk 
about, with the result 
that the common room often didnt empty until past midnight. 
Harry went to get the Invisibility 
Cloak out of his trunk right af-ter dinner, and spent the evening sitting on it, waiting for the room to clear. Fred and George challenged Harry and Ron to a few 
games of Exploding Snap, and Ginny sat watching them, very sub-
dued in Hermiones usual chair. Harry and Ron kept losing on pur-
pose, trying to finish the games 
quickly, but even so, it was well past midnight when Fred, George, and Ginny finally went to bed. 
Harry and Ron waited for the dist
ant sounds of two dormitory doors closing before seizing the cloak, throwing it over themselves, and climbing through 
the portrait hole. 
It was another difficult journey 
through the castle, dodging all the teachers. At last they reached the entrance
 hall, slid back the 
lock on the oak front doors, squeezed between them, trying to stop any creaking, and stepped out into the moonlit grounds. 
Course, said Ron abruptly as
 they strode across the black 
grass, we might get to the forest and find theres nothing to follow. 
Those spiders might notve been going 
there at all. I know it looked 
like they were moving in that sort
 of general direction, but . . . 
His voice trailed away hopefully. 
They reached Hagrids house, 
sad and sorry-looking with its 
blank windows. When Harry push
ed the door open, Fang went mad with joy at the sight of them. Worried he might wake 
everyone at the castle with his 
deep, booming barks, they hastily fed him treacle toffee from a tin 
on the mantelpiece, which glued 
his teeth together. 
Harry left the Invisibility Cloak 
on Hagrids table. There would 
be no need for it in the pitch-dark forest. CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  272  Cmon, Fang, were going for a walk, said Harry, patting his leg, and Fang bounded happily out of the house behind them, dashed to the edge of the forest, 
and lifted his leg against a large 
sycamore tree. 
Harry took out his wand, murmured, Lumos! and a tiny light 
appeared at the end of it, just en
ough to let them watch the path for signs of spiders. Good thinking, said Ron. Id light mine, too, but you 
know  itd probably blow up or something. . . . 
Harry tapped Ron on the shoulder
, pointing at the grass. Two solitary spiders were hurrying away from the wandlight into the 
shade of the trees. 
Okay, Ron sighed as though resi
gned to the worst, Im ready. 
Lets go. 
So, with Fang scampering around them, sniffing tree roots and 
leaves, they entered the forest. By the glow of Harrys wand, they 

followed the steady trickle of spiders moving along the path. They 
walked behind them for about 
twenty minutes, not speaking, lis-
tening hard for noises other than breaking twigs and rustling leaves. 
Then, when the trees had become thic
ker than ever, so that the stars 
overhead were no longer visible,
 and Harrys wand shone alone in the sea of dark, they saw their spider guides leaving the path. 
Harry paused, trying to see wher
e the spiders were going, but everything outside his little sphere of light was pitch-black. He had never been this deep
 into the forest before. He could vividly 
remember Hagrid advising him not to
 leave the forest path last time 
hed been in here. But Hagrid was miles away now, probably sitting 

in a cell in Azkaban, and he had also said to follow the spiders. 
 ARAGOG  273  Something wet touched Harrys hand and he jumped backward, 
crushing Rons foot, but it
 was only Fangs nose. 
What dyou reckon? Harry said to Ron, whose eyes he could 
just make out, reflecting the light from his wand. 
Weve come this far, said Ron. 
So they followed the darting sh
adows of the spiders into the 
trees. They couldnt move very quickly now; there were tree roots 
and stumps in their way, barely vi
sible in the near blackness. Harry 
could feel Fangs hot breath on his hand. More than once, they had 

to stop, so that Harry could crouch down and find the spiders in 
the wandlight. They walked for what seemed like at least half an hour, their 
robes snagging on low-slung branches and brambles. After a while, 
they noticed that the ground se
emed to be sloping downward, though the trees were as thick as ever. Then Fang suddenly let loose 
a great, echoing bark, making 
both Harry and Ron jump
 out of their skins. What? said Ron loudly, looking around into the pitch-dark, 
and gripping Harry
s elbow very hard. 
Theres something moving over there, Harry breathed. Lis-ten . . . sounds like something big. . . . 
They listened. Some distance to
 their right, the something big was snapping branches as it ca
rved a path through the trees. Oh, no, said Ron. Oh, no, oh, no, oh  

Shut up, said Harry franti
cally. Itll hear you. Hear 
me? said Ron in an unnatura
lly high voice. Its already 
heard Fang! The darkness seemed to be pressing
 on their eyeballs as they   CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  274  stood, terrified, waiting. There was a strange rumbling noise and then silence. 
What dyou think its 
doing? said Harry. Probably getting ready to
 pounce, said Ron. 
They waited, shivering, 
hardly daring to move. 
Dyou think its gone? Harry whispered. 
Dunno  
Then, to their right, came a sudden blaze of light, so bright in 
the darkness that both of them flung up their hands to shield their 

eyes. Fang yelped and tried to run,
 but got lodged in a tangle of 
thorns and yelped even louder. 
Harry! Ron shouted, his voice br
eaking with relief. Harry, its our car! What
? Come on! 
Harry blundered after Ron toward the light, stumbling and trip-ping, and a moment later they 
had emerged into a clearing. 
Mr. Weasleys car was standing, empty, in the middle of a circle of thick trees under a roof of dense branches, its headlights ablaze. 
As Ron walked, openmouthed, toward it, it moved slowly toward 
him, exactly like a large, turquoise dog greeting its owner. Its been here all the time! 
said Ron delightedly, walking around the car. Look 
at it. The forests tu
rned it wild. . . . The sides of the car were scratc
hed and smeared with mud. Ap-parently it had taken to trundling around the forest on its own. 
Fang didnt seem at all keen on it; he kept close to Harry, who 
could feel him quivering. His breathing slowing down again, Harry 
stuffed his wand back into his robes. 
 ARAGOG  275  And we thought it was going to attack us! said Ron, leaning 
against the car and patting it. I wondered where it had gone! 
Harry squinted around on the floodlit ground for signs of more spiders, but they had all scuttled 
away from the glare of the head-lights. 
Weve lost the trail, he said. 
Cmon, lets go and find them. Ron didnt speak. He didnt move. His eyes were fixed on a point 
some ten feet above the forest 
floor, right behind Harry. His face was livid with terror. Harry didnt even have time to 
turn around. There was a loud 
clicking noise and suddenly he felt
 something long and hairy seize 
him around the middle and lift him off the ground, so that he was 
hanging facedown. Struggling, terri
fied, he heard more clicking, 
and saw Rons legs leave the grou
nd, too, heard Fang whimpering and howling  next moment, he was being swept away into the 
dark trees. Head hanging, Harry saw that what had hold of him was march-
ing on six immensely long, hairy 
legs, the front two clutching him 
tightly below a pair of shining black pincers. Behind him, he could 
hear another of the creatures, no
 doubt carrying Ron. They were 
moving into the very heart of the forest. Harry could hear Fang fighting to free himself from a third monster, whining loudly, but 
Harry couldnt have yelled even if he had wanted to; he seemed to 
have left his voice back wi
th the car in the clearing. He never knew how long he was 
in the creatures clutches; he 
only knew that the darkness suddenly lifted enough for him to see 
that the leaf-strewn ground was no
w swarming with spiders. Cran-ing his neck sideways, he
 realized that they had reached the ridge of   CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  276  a vast hollow, a hollow that had been cleared of trees, so that the 
stars shone brightly onto the worst scene he had ever laid eyes on. 
Spiders. Not tiny spiders like thos
e surging over the leaves below. 
Spiders the size of carthorses, eigh
t-eyed, eight-legged, black, hairy, 
gigantic. The massive specimen that
 was carrying Harry made its way down the steep slope toward a misty, domed web in the very 
center of the hollow, while its fellows closed in all around it, click-
ing their pincers excitedly 
at the sight of its load. Harry fell to the ground on all fours as the spider released him. 
Ron and Fang thudded down next to him. Fang wasnt howling 
anymore, but cowering silently on the spot. Ron looked exactly 
like Harry felt. His mouth was stretched wide in a kind of silent scream and his eyes were popping. 
Harry suddenly realized that th
e spider that had dropped him 
was saying something. It
 had been hard to tell, because he clicked 
his pincers with every word he spoke. 
Aragog! it called. Aragog! 
And from the middle of the misty, domed web, a spider the size 
of a small elephant emerged, ve
ry slowly. There was gray in the 
black of his body and legs, and ea
ch of the eyes on his ugly, pin-
cered head was milky white. He was blind. 
What is it? he said, clicking his pincers rapidly. 

Men, clicked the spider
 who had caught Harry. Is it Hagrid? said Aragog, moving closer, his eight milky eyes 
wandering vaguely. 
Strangers, clicked the spider who had brought Ron. 

Kill them, clicked Aragog fretfully. I was sleeping. . . . 

Were friends of Hagrids, Harry
 shouted. His heart seemed to 
have left his chest to pound in his throat.
 ARAGOG  277  Click, click, click went the pincers of the spiders all around the 
hollow. 
Aragog paused. 
Hagrid has never sent men into our hollow before, he said 
slowly. 
Hagrids in trouble, said Harry, breathing very fast. Thats 
why weve come. In trouble? said the aged spid
er, and Harry thought he heard concern beneath the clicking pincers. But why has he sent you? 
Harry thought of getting to his feet but decided against it; he didnt think his legs would support him. So he spoke from the 

ground, as calmly
 as he could. They think, up at the school, that Hagrids been setting a  
a  something on students. Theyve taken him to Azkaban. 
Aragog clicked his pincers furi
ously, and all around the hol-low the sound was echoed by the crowd of spiders; it was like 
applause, except applause didnt 
usually make Harry feel sick with fear. But that was years ago, said Ar
agog fretfully. Years and years 
ago. I remember it well. Thats
 why they made him leave the 
school. They believed that 
I was the monster that dwells in what 
they call the Chamber of Secrets.
 They thought that Hagrid had 
opened the Chamber and set me free. 
And you . . . you didnt come from the Chamber of Secrets? 
said Harry, who could feel cold sweat on his forehead. 
I! said Aragog, clicking angrily.
 I was not born in the castle. I 
come from a distant land. A traveler gave me to Hagrid when I was 
an egg. Hagrid was only a boy, but he cared for me, hidden in a 
cupboard in the castle, feeding me on
 scraps from the table. Hagrid 
CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  278  is my good friend, and a good man. When I was discovered, and 
blamed for the death of a girl, he protected me. I have lived here in 
the forest ever since, where Hagrid
 still visits me. He even found 
me a wife, Mosag, and you see how our family has grown, all 

through Hagrids goodness. . . . 
Harry summoned what remained of his courage. So you never  never attacked anyone? 
Never, croaked the 
old spider. It would have been my in-
stinct, but out of respect for Hagrid, I never harmed a human. The 

body of the girl who was killed was discovered in a bathroom. I never saw any part of the castle 
but the cupboard in which I grew 
up. Our kind like the dark and the quiet. . . . But then . . . Do you know what did kill that girl? said Harry. 
Because whatever it is, its ba
ck and attacking people again  His words were drowned by a loud outbreak of clicking and the rustling of many long legs shif
ting angrily; large black shapes shifted all around him. The thing that lives in the cast
le, said Aragog, is an ancient 
creature we spiders fear above a
ll others. Well do I remember how I pleaded with Hagrid to let me 
go, when I sensed the beast mov-
ing about the school. 
What is it? said Harry urgently. 

More loud clicking, more rustling; the spiders seemed to be clos-
ing in. 
We do not speak of it! said Aragog fiercely. We do not name 
it! I never even told Hagrid th
e name of that dread creature, 
though he asked me, many times. 
Harry didnt want to press the subject, not with the spiders  
 ARAGOG  279  pressing closer on all sides. Aragog
 seemed to be tired of talking. He was backing slowly into his 
domed web, but his fellow spiders 
continued to inch slowly
 toward Harry and Ron. 
Well just go, then, Harry ca
lled desperately to Aragog, hear-ing leaves rustli
ng behind him. Go? said Aragog slowly. I think not. . . . 
But  but  
My sons and daughters do not harm Hagrid, on my command. 
But I cannot deny them fresh meat, when it wanders so willingly 
into our midst. Good-bye, friend of Hagrid. Harry spun around. Feet away, towering above him, was a solid 
wall of spiders, clicking, their many eyes gleaming in their ugly 
black heads. Even as he reached for his wa
nd, Harry knew it was no good, there were too many of them, but as
 he tried to stand, ready to die fighting, a loud, long note sounde
d, and a blaze of light flamed 
through the hollow. Mr. Weasleys car was thundering down the slope, headlights 
glaring, its horn screeching, knocking spiders aside; several were 
thrown onto their backs, their endless legs waving in the air. The 
car screeched to a halt in front of Harry and Ron and the doors flew open. 
Get Fang! Harry yelled, diving into the front seat; Ron seized 
the boarhound around the middle and threw him, yelping, into the 
back of the car  the doors slammed shut  Ron didnt touch the 
accelerator but the car didnt need
 him; the engine roared and they 
were off, hitting more spiders. They sped up the slope, out of the 
hollow, and they were soon crashing through the forest, branches  
 CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  280  whipping the windows as the car 
wound its way cleverly through 
the widest gaps, following 
a path it obviously knew. Harry looked sideways at Ron. His mouth was still open in the 
silent scream, but his eyes werent popping anymore. 
Are you okay? 
Ron stared straight ahea
d, unable to speak. 
They smashed their way through 
the undergrowth, Fang howl-
ing loudly in the back seat, and 
Harry saw the side mirror snap off 
as they squeezed past a large oak.
 After ten noisy,
 rocky minutes, 
the trees thinned, and Harry could again see patches of sky. 
The car stopped so suddenly that 
they were nearly thrown into 
the windshield. They had reached the edge of the forest. Fang flung himself at the window in his anxiety to get out, and when Harry 

opened the door, he shot off through the trees to Hagrids house, tail between his legs. Harry got out too, and after a minute or so, 

Ron seemed to regain the feeling 
in his limbs and followed, still stiff-necked and staring. Harry gave
 the car a grateful pat as it re-
versed back into the forest
 and disappeared from view. Harry went back into Hagrids cabin to get the Invisibility 
Cloak. Fang was trembling under 
a blanket in his basket. When Harry got outside again, he found 
Ron being violently sick in the pumpkin patch. Follow the spiders, said Ron weakly, wiping his mouth on his 
sleeve. Ill never forgive Hagrid. Were lucky to be alive. 
I bet he thought Aragog wouldnt hurt friends of his, said 
Harry. Thats exactly Hagrids problem!
 said Ron, thumping the wall of the cabin. He always thinks mo
nsters arent as bad as theyre  
 ARAGOG  281  made out, and look where its got him! A cell in Azkaban! He was 
shivering uncontrollably now. Wha
t was the point of sending us 
in there? What have we foun
d out, Id like to know? That Hagrid never opened th
e Chamber of Secrets, said 
Harry, throwing the cloak over 
Ron and prodding him in the arm 
to make him walk. He was innocent. 
Ron gave a loud snort. Evidently, 
hatching Aragog in a cupboard 
wasnt his idea of being innocent. 
As the castle loomed nearer Harry twitched the cloak to make 
sure their feet were hidden, then pushed the creaking front doors ajar. They walked carefully back across the entrance hall and up the marble staircase, holding their breath as they passed corridors 
where watchful sentries were wa
lking. At last they reached the 
safety of the Gryffindor common room, where the fire had burned 

itself into glowing ash. They t
ook off the cloak and climbed the winding stair to their dormitory. 
Ron fell onto his bed 
without bothering to get undressed. Harry, 
however, didnt feel very sleepy. 
He sat on the edge of his four-
poster, thinking hard about 
everything Aragog had said. 
The creature that was lurking somewhere in the castle, he 
thought, sounded like a sort of monster Voldemort  even other 
monsters didnt want to name it. 
But he and Ron were no closer to finding out what it was, or how it
 Petrified its victims. Even Hagrid 
had never known what was in the Chamber of Secrets. 
Harry swung his legs up onto his bed and leaned back against his 
pillows, watching the moon glinting at him through the tower 

window. He couldnt see what else they co
uld do. They had hit dead ends  
 CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  282  everywhere. Riddle had caught th
e wrong person, the Heir of Slytherin had got off, and no one could tell whether it was the same 
person, or a different one, who had opened the Chamber this time. 
There was nobody else to ask. Harry lay down, still thinking about 
what Aragog had said. 
He was becoming drowsy when what seemed like their very last 
hope occurred to him, and he suddenly sat bolt upright. 
Ron, he hissed through the dark, Ron  
Ron woke with a yelp like Fangs, stared wildly around, and saw 
Harry. Ron  that girl who died. Aragog said she was found in a bathroom, said Harry, ignoring Ne
villes snuffling snores from the corner. What if she never left th
e bathroom? What if shes still there? 
Ron rubbed his eyes, frowning 
through the moonlight. And 
then he understood, too. You 
dont
 think  not 
Moaning Myrtle
? C H A P T E R  S I X T E E N   283  THE CHAMBER 
OF SECRETS 
  ll those times we were in that
 bathroom, and she was just three toilets away, said Ron bi
tterly at breakfast next day, 
and we couldve asked her, and now . . . 
It had been hard enou
gh trying to look for spiders. Escaping 
their teachers long enough to sneak into a girls bathroom, the girls 
bathroom, moreover, right next to the scene of the first attack, was 
going to be almost impossible. 
But something happened in their first lesson, Transfiguration, 
that drove the Chamber of Secrets out of their minds for the first 
time in weeks. Ten minutes into
 the class, Professor McGonagall told them that their exams would start on the first of June, one 
week from today. Exams? howled Seamus Finnigan. Were still getting 
exams? There was a loud bang behind 
Harry as Neville Longbottoms 
wand slipped, vanishing one of the legs on his desk. Professor  
 A CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  284  McGonagall restored it with a wa
ve of her own wand, and turned, 
frowning, to Seamus. The whole point of keeping the sc
hool open at this time is for 
you to receive your education, sh
e said sternly. The exams will 
therefore take place as usual, and 
I trust you are all 
studying hard. 
Studying hard! It had never occurred to Harry that there would 
be exams with the castle in this 
state. There was a great deal of 
mutinous muttering around th
e room, which made Professor McGonagall scowl ev
en more darkly. 
Professor Dumbledores instructions were to keep the school 
running as normally as possible, sh
e said. And that, I need hardly 
point out, means finding out how much you have learned this year. 
Harry looked down at the pair of white rabbits he was supposed 
to be turning into slippers. What 
had he learned so far this year? 
He couldnt seem to think of anything that would be useful in an 

exam. Ron looked as though hed just been told he had to go and live 
in the Forbidden Forest. 
Can you imagine me taking exams with this? he asked Harry, holding up his wand, which had 
just started whistling loudly. 
 Three days before their first exam
, Professor McGonagall made an-
other announcement at breakfast. 
I have good news, she said, and the Great Hall, instead of falling silent, erupted. 
Dumbledores coming back! se
veral people yelled joyfully. Youve caught the Heir of Slytherin! squealed a girl at the 
Ravenclaw table. THE  CHAMBER  OF  SECRETS  285  Quidditch matches are back on
! roared Wood excitedly. 
When the hubbub had subsided, 
Professor McGonagall said, 
Professor Sprout has informed me
 that the Mandrakes are ready 
for cutting at last. Tonight, we wi
ll be able to revive those people 
who have been Petrified. I need ha
rdly remind you all that one of them may well be able to tell us wh
o, or what, attacked them. I am 
hopeful that this dreadful year will end with our catching the cul-
prit. There was an explosion of cheering. Harry looked over at the Slytherin table and wasnt at all su
rprised to see that Draco Malfoy hadnt joined in. Ron, however, was looking happier than hed 
looked in days. 
It wont matter that we never 
asked Myrtle, then! he said to 
Harry. Hermionell probably have all the answers when they wake 
her up! Mind you, shell go crazy when she finds out weve got ex-
ams in three days time. She hasnt 
studied. It might be kinder to 
leave her where she is 
till theyre over. 
Just then, Ginny Weasley came over and sat down next to Ron. 
She looked tense and nervous, and Harry noticed that her hands 
were twisting in her lap. 
Whats up? said Ron, helpin
g himself to more porridge. 
Ginny didnt say anything, 
but glanced up and down the Gryffindor table with a scared look on her face that reminded Harry of someone, though 
he couldnt think who. 
Spit it out, said 
Ron, watching her. Harry suddenly realized who Ginny looked like. She was rock-
ing backward and forward slightly in her chair, exactly like Dobby did when he was teetering on the edge of revealing forbidden in-formation. CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  286  Ive got to tell you something,
 Ginny mumbled, carefully not 
looking at Harry. 
What is it? said Harry. 
Ginny looked as though she co
uldnt find the right words. 
What
? said Ron. Ginny opened her mouth, but no 
sound came out. Harry leaned forward and spoke quietly, so that only Ginny and Ron could hear 
him. Is it something about the Chambe
r of Secrets? Have you seen 
something? Someone acting oddly? 
Ginny drew a deep breath and, at that precise moment, Percy 
Weasley appeared, looking tired and wan. 
If youve finished eating, Ill take that seat, Ginny. Im starving, 
Ive only just come
 off patrol duty. Ginny jumped up as though her chair had just been electrified, 
gave Percy a fleeting, frightened look, and scampered away. Percy 

sat down and grabbed a mug from the center of the table. 
Percy! said Ron angrily. She was just about to tell us some-
thing important! Halfway through a gulp of tea, Percy choked. 
What sort of thing? he said, coughing. 

I just asked her if shed seen anything odd, and she started to say  Oh  that  thats nothing to do with the Chamber of Se-
crets, said Percy at once. 
How do you know? said Ron, his eyebrows raised. 
Well, er, if you must know, Ginny, er, walked in on me the other day when I was  well, neve
r mind  the point is, she spot- 
 THE  CHAMBER  OF  SECRETS  287  ted me doing something and I, um, I asked her not to mention it 
to anybody. I must say, I did think shed keep her word. Its noth-ing, really, Id just rather  Harry had never seen Percy look so uncomfortable. 
What were you doing, Percy? said Ron, grinning. Go on, tell us, we wont laugh. 
Percy didnt smile back. 
Pass me those rolls, Harry, Im starving. 
 Harry knew the whole mystery might be solved tomorrow without 
their help, but he wasnt about to 
pass up a chance to speak to Myr-tle if it turned up  and to his 
delight it did, midmorning, when they were being led to History of Magic by Gilderoy Lockhart. 
Lockhart, who had so often assured them that all danger had 
passed, only to be proved wrong right away, was now wholeheart-

edly convinced that it was hardly worth the trouble to see them 

safely down the corridors. His hair wasnt as sleek as usual; it 
seemed he had been up most of 
the night, patrolling the fourth 
floor. 
Mark my words, he said, usheri
ng them around a corner. The 
first words out of thos
e poor Petrified peoples mouths will be 
It 
was Hagrid. Frankly, Im astounded Professor McGonagall thinks 
all these security meas
ures are necessary. 
I agree, sir, said Harry, making
 Ron drop his books in surprise. 
Thank you, Harry, said Lockhart
 graciously while they waited 
for a long line of Hufflepuffs to 
pass. I mean, we teachers have 
quite enough to be getting on wi
th, without walking students to 
classes and standing gu
ard all night. . . .  CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  288  Thats right, said Ron, catching on. Why dont you leave us 
here, sir, weve only got on
e more corridor to go  
You know, Weasley, I think I will, said Lockhart. I really 
should go and prepar
e my next class  And he hurried off. Prepare his class, 
Ron sneered after him.
 Gone to curl his 
hair, more like. 
They let the rest of the Gryffindors draw ahead of them, then darted down a side passage and hurried off toward Moaning Myr-
tles bathroom. But just as they were congratulating each other on 

their brilliant scheme  Potter! Weasley! What are you doing? 
It was Professor McGonagall, an
d her mouth was the thinnest of thin lines. We were  we were  Ron 
stammered. We were going 
to  to go and see  
Hermione, said Harry. Ron an
d Professor McGonagall both looked at him. 
We havent seen her for ages, Professor, Harry went on hur-
riedly, treading on Rons foot, and we thought wed sneak into the 
hospital wing, you know, and tell her the Mandrakes are nearly 
ready and, er, not to worry  
Professor McGonagall was still 
staring at him, and for a mo-
ment, Harry thought she was going to explode, but when she 
spoke, it was in a strangely croaky voice. 
Of course, she said, and Harry, amazed, saw a tear glistening 
in her beady eye. Of co
urse, I realize this ha
s all been hardest on 
the friends of those who have been . . . I quite understand. Yes,  
 THE  CHAMBER  OF  SECRETS  289  Potter, of course you may visit Miss Granger. I will inform Profes-
sor Binns where youve gone. Tell Madam Pomfrey I have given my permission. 
Harry and Ron walked away, hardly 
daring to believe that theyd 
avoided detention. As they turned 
the corner, they distinctly heard 

Professor McGonagall blow her nose. 
That, said Ron fervently, was th
e best story youve ever come 
up with. 
They had no choice now but to go to the hospital wing and tell 
Madam Pomfrey that th
ey had Professor McGonagalls permission 

to visit Hermione. 
Madam Pomfrey let them 
in, but reluctantly. 
Theres just no point talking to a Petrified person, she said, and 
they had to admit she had a point when theyd taken their seats next to Hermione. It was plain that
 Hermione didnt have the faint-
est inkling that she had visitors, and that they might just as well tell 

her bedside cabinet no
t to worry for all the good it would do. 
Wonder if she did see the attacker, though? said Ron, looking sadly at Hermiones rigid face. Because if he sneaked up on them 
all, no onell ever know. . . . But Harry wasnt looking at Hermiones face. He was more in-
terested in her right hand. It lay clenched on top of her blankets, 
and bending closer, he saw that a piece of paper was scrunched in-
side her fist. 
Making sure that Madam Po
mfrey was nowhere near, he 
pointed this out to Ron. 
Try and get it out, Ron whispered, shifting his chair so that he blocked Harry from Madam Pomfreys view. 
 CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  290  It was no easy task. Hermiones
 hand was clamped so tightly around the paper that Harry was sure he was going to tear it. While Ron kept watch he tugged and twisted, and at last, after several 
tense minutes, the paper came free. 
It was a page torn from a ve
ry old library book. Harry smoothed it out eagerly and Ron leaned close to read it, too.
  Of the many fearsome beasts and monsters that roam our land, 
there is none more curious or 
more deadly than the Basilisk, 
known also as the King of Serpents. This snake, which may reach gigantic size and live many hundreds of years, is born 

from a chickens egg, hatched 
beneath a toad. Its methods of 
killing are most wondrous, for 
aside from its deadly and ven-omous fangs, the Basilisk has a murderous stare, and all who 
are fixed with the beam of its eye shall suffer instant death. 
Spiders flee before the Basilisk, for it is their mortal enemy, 

and the Basilisk flees only from the crowing of the rooster, 

which is fatal to it. 
 And beneath this, a single word 
had been written, in a hand Harry recognized as Hermiones. 
Pipes. It was as though some
body had just flicked a light on in his 
brain. 
Ron, he breathed. This is it. This is the answer. The monster 
in the Chambers a 
basilisk
  a giant serpent! 
Thats
 why Ive been hearing that voice all over the place, and nobody else has heard it. Its because I understand
 Parseltongue. . . . 
Harry looked up at th
e beds around him.  THE  CHAMBER  OF  SECRETS  291  The basilisk kills people by looking at them. But no ones 
died  because no one looked it st
raight in the eye. Colin saw it 
through his camera. The basilisk burned up all the film inside it, 
but Colin just got Petrified. Justin . . . Justin mustve seen the 
basilisk through Nearly Headless Nick! Nick got the full blast of it, 
but he couldnt die 
again . . . and Hermione and that Ravenclaw 
prefect were found with a mirror 
next to them. Hermione had just 
realized the monster was a basili
sk. I bet you anything she warned the first person she met to look ar
ound corners with a mirror first! And that girl pulled out her mirror  and  
Rons jaw had dropped. 

And Mrs. Norris? he whispered eagerly. 
Harry thought hard, picturing th
e scene on the night of Hal-loween. 
The water . . . he said slowly. The flood from Moaning Myr-tles bathroom. I bet you Mrs. Norri
s only saw the reflection. . . . 
He scanned the page in his hand 
eagerly. The more he looked at 
it, the more it made sense. 
. . . The crowing of the rooster
 . . . is fatal to it! he read aloud. 
Hagrids roosters were killed! Th
e Heir of Slytherin didnt want 
one anywhere near the castle 
once the Chamber was opened! 
Spi-ders flee before it
! It all fits! 
But hows the basilisk been getting around the place? said Ron. 
A giant snake . . . Someon
e wouldve seen . . . Harry, however, pointed at the 
word Hermione had scribbled at 
the foot of the page. 
Pipes, he said. Pipes . . . Ron, its been using the plumbing. 
Ive been hearing that voice inside the walls. . . . 

 CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  292  Ron suddenly grab
bed Harrys arm. 
The entrance to the Chamber of Secrets! he said hoarsely. 
What if its a bathroom
? What if its in  
 
Moaning Myrtles bathroom,
 said Harry. 
They sat there, excitement coursing through them, hardly able to believe it. This means, said Harry, I can
t be the only Parselmouth in 
the school. The Heir of Slytherin
s one, too. Thats how hes been controlling th
e basilisk. 
Whatre we going to do? said 
Ron, whose eyes were flashing. Should we go straig
ht to McGonagall? Lets go to the staffroom, said Harry, jumping up. Shell be 
there in ten minutes. Its nearly break. 
They ran downstairs. Not wantin
g to be discovered hanging around in another corridor, they went straight into the deserted 

staffroom. It was a large, paneled room full of dark, wooden chairs. 

Harry and Ron paced around it
, too excited to sit down. But the bell to signal break never came. 
Instead, echoing through the corridors came Professor McGon-
agalls voice, magically magnified. 
All students to return to their House dormitories at once. All teach-ers return to the staffroom. Immediately, please.
 Harry wheeled around 
to stare at Ron. 
Not another attack? Not now? 
Whatll we do? said Ron, aghast. Go back to the dormitory? 
No, said Harry, glancing around. There was an ugly sort of 
wardrobe to his left, full of the te
achers cloaks. In here. Lets hear 
what its all about. Then we can 
tell them what weve found out. 
 THE  CHAMBER  OF  SECRETS  293  They hid themselves inside it, listening to the rumbling of hun-dreds of people moving overhead, and the staffroom door banging open. From between the musty folds 
of the cloaks, they watched the teachers filtering into the room. Some of them were looking puz-
zled, others downright scared. Then
 Professor McGonagall arrived. 
It has happened, she told the silent staffroom. A student has 
been taken by the monster. Right into the Chamber itself. 
Professor Flitwick let out a sque
al. Professor Sprout clapped her 
hands over her mouth. Snape grippe
d the back of a chair very hard 
and said, How can you be sure? 
The Heir of Slytherin, said
 Professor McGonagall, who was 
very white, left another message. 
Right underneath the first one. Her skeleton will lie in the Chamber forever.
 
Professor Flitwick burst into tears. Who is it? said Madam Hooch, who had sunk, weak-kneed, 
into a chair. Which student? 
Ginny Weasley, said Professor McGonagall. 

Harry felt Ron slide silently dow
n onto the wardrobe floor be-side him. 
We shall have to send all the 
students home tomorrow, said 
Professor McGonagall. This is the end of Hogwarts. Dumbledore always said . . . The staffroom door banged open again. For one wild moment, Harry was sure it would be Dumbledore. But it was Lockhart, and 
he was beaming. 
So sorry  dozed off  what have I missed? 
He didnt seem to notice that th
e other teachers were looking at 
him with something remarkably like hatred. Snape stepped forward. 
 CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  294  Just the man, he said. The ve
ry man. A girl has been snatched 
by the monster, Lockhart. Taken in
to the Chamber of Secrets itself. 
Your moment has come at last. 
Lockhart blanched. 
Thats right, Gilderoy, chippe
d in Professor Sprout. Werent 
you saying just last night that youve known all along where the en-
trance to the Chamber of Secrets is? 
I  well, I  sputtered Lockhart. 
Yes, didnt you tell me you were
 sure you knew what was inside it? piped up Professor Flitwick. 
D-did I? I dont recall  
I certainly remember you saying you were sorry you hadnt had 
a crack at the monster before Hagr
id was arrested, said Snape. 
Didnt you say that the whole af
fair had been bungled, and that you should have been
 given a free rein
 from the first? 
Lockhart stared around at his stony-faced colleagues. 

I  I really never  you may have misunderstood  Well leave it to you, then, Gi
lderoy, said Professor McGona-
gall. Tonight will be an excellen
t time to do it. Well make sure 
everyones out of your way. Youll be able to tackle the monster all 
by yourself. A free rein at last. 
Lockhart gazed desperately around him, but nobody came to the 
rescue. He didnt look remotely
 handsome anymore. His lip was 
trembling, and in the absence of his usually toothy grin, he looked 
weak-chinned and feeble. V-very well, he said. Ill  Ill be in my office, getting  
getting ready. 
And he left the room. 
Right, said Professor McGonaga
ll, whose nostrils were flared, 
THE  CHAMBER  OF  SECRETS  295  thats got 
him out from under our feet. The Heads of Houses 
should go and inform their stud
ents what has happened. Tell them the Hogwarts Express will take 
them home first thing tomorrow. 
Will the rest of you please make 
sure no students have been left 
outside their dormitories. The teachers rose and left, one by one. 
 It was probably the worst day of Harrys entire life. He, Ron, Fred, 
and George sat together in a corner of the Gryffindor common 
room, unable to say anything to ea
ch other. Percy wasnt there. He 
had gone to send an owl to Mr. 
and Mrs. Weasley, then shut him-self up in his dormitory. 
No afternoon ever lasted as long 
as that one, nor had Gryffindor 
Tower ever been so crowded, yet so
 quiet. Near sunset, Fred and 
George went up to 
bed, unable to sit there any longer. 
She knew something, Harry, said
 Ron, speaking for the first time since they had entered the wardrobe in the staffroom. Thats 

why she was taken. It wasnt some 
stupid thing about Percy at all. 
Shed found out something about the Chamber of Secrets. That 
must be why she was  Ron rubbed his eyes frantically. I mean, 
she was a pureblood. There cant be any other reason. 
Harry could see the sun sinking, blood-red, below the skyline. This was the worst he had ever fe
lt. If only there was something 
they could do. Anything. Harry, said Ron. Dyou think 
theres any chance at all shes 
not  you know  
Harry didnt know what to sa
y. He couldnt see how Ginny 
could still be alive. 
Dyou know what? said Ron. I think we should go and see 
CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  296  Lockhart. Tell him what we know. 
Hes going to try and get into 
the Chamber. We can tell him where 
we think it is, and tell him its 
a basilisk in there. 
Because Harry couldnt think of an
ything else to do, and because he wanted to be doing somethin
g, he agreed. The Gryffindors 
around them were so miserable, and felt so sorry for the Weasleys, that nobody tried to stop them as they got up, crossed the room, 
and left through the portrait hole. 
Darkness was falling as they walk
ed down to Lockharts office. 
There seemed to be a lot of activity going on inside it. They could 
hear scraping, thumps, and hurried footsteps. 
Harry knocked and there was a 
sudden silence from inside. 
Then the door opened the tiniest cr
ack and they saw one of Lock-
harts eyes peering through it. 
Oh  Mr. Potter  Mr. Weasle
y  he said, opening the door a bit wider. Im rather busy at the moment  if you would be quick  Professor, weve got some information for you, said Harry. 
We think itll help you. 
Er  well  its not terribly  The side 
of Lockharts face that they could see looked very uncomfortable. I mean  well  

all right  He opened the door 
and they entered. 
His office had been almost completely stripped. Two large 
trunks stood open on the floor. Robe
s, jade-green, lilac, midnight-blue, had been hastily folded into one of them; books were jum-

bled untidily into the other. Th
e photographs that had covered the walls were now crammed into boxes on the desk. 
 THE  CHAMBER  OF  SECRETS  297  Are you going somewhere? said Harry. 
Er, well, yes, said Lockhart, ripping a life-size poster of himself 
from the back of the door as he spoke and starting to roll it up. Urgent call  unavoidable  got to go  
What about my sister? said Ron jerkily. 

Well, as to that  most unfo
rtunate  said Lockhart, avoid-
ing their eyes as he wrenched open a drawer and started emptying 
the contents into a bag. No one regrets more than I  
Youre the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher! said Harry. 
You cant go now! Not with all 
the Dark stuff going on here! 
Well  I must say  when I t
ook the job  Lockhart mut-tered, now piling socks on top of 
his robes. nothing in the job de-
scription  didnt expect  
You mean youre 
running away
? said Harry disbelievingly. Af-
ter all that stuff you did in your books  Books can be misleading, said Lockhart delicately. You wrote them!
 Harry shouted. 
My dear boy, said Lockhart, straightening up and frowning at 
Harry. Do use your common sense. My books wouldnt have sold 
half as well if people didnt think 
Id done all those things. No one 
wants to read about some ugly old Armenian warlock, even if he 
did save a village from werewolves. Hed look dreadful on the front cover. No dress sense at all. And the witch who banished the Ban-
don Banshee had a hairy chin. I mean, come on  
So youve just been taking credit for what a load of other people have done? said Harry incredulously. 
Harry, Harry, said Lockhart, shaking his head impatiently, 
its not nearly as simple as that. There was work involved. I had  
 CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  298  to track these people down. Ask them exactly how they managed 
to do what they did. Then I had to put a Memory Charm on 
them so they wouldnt remember doing it. If theres one thing I 
pride myself on, its my Memory Charms. No, its been a lot of 
work, Harry. Its not all book signings and publicity photos, you know. You want fame, you have to be prepared for a long hard 
slog. 
He banged the lids of his tr
unks shut and locked them. 
Lets see, he said. I think th
ats everything. Yes. Only one thing left. He pulled out his wand and turned to them. 

Awfully sorry, boys, but Ill have to put a Memory Charm on 
you now. Cant have you blabbing my secrets all over the place. Id 

never sell another book  
Harry reached his wand just in time. Lockhart had barely raised his, when Harry bellowed, 
Expelliarmus
! Lockhart was blasted backward, fa
lling over his trunk; his wand 
flew high into the air; Ron caught 
it, and flung it out of the open window. Shouldnt have let Professor Snape teach us that one, said 
Harry furiously, kicking Lockharts 
trunk aside. Lockhart was look-
ing up at him, feeble once more. Harry was still pointing his wand 
at him. What dyou want me to do? said Lockhart weakly. I dont 
know where the Chamber of Secret
s is. Theres nothing I can do. 
Youre in luck, said Harry, forcing Lockhart to his feet at wandpoint. We think 
we know where it is. 
And whats inside it. 
Lets go. 

 THE  CHAMBER  OF  SECRETS  299  They marched Lockhart out of his office and down the nearest 
stairs, along the dark corridor 
where the messages shone on the 
wall, to the door of Moaning Myrtles bathroom. 
They sent Lockhart in first. Harry was pleased to see that he was 
shaking. Moaning Myrtle was si
tting on the tank of the end toilet. Oh, its you, she said when 
she saw Harry. What do you want this time? To ask you how you died, said Harry. 
Myrtles whole aspect changed at once. She looked as though she 
had never been asked such a flattering question. 
Ooooh, it was dreadful, she said with relish. It happened 
right in here. I died in this very stall. I remember it so well. Id hid-
den because Olive Hornby was teasing me about my glasses. The 
door was locked, and I was crying, and then I heard somebody come in. They said something funny. A different language, I think 
it must have been. Anyway, what really got me was that it was a 
boy 
speaking. So I unlocked the door, to tell him to go and use his own toilet, and then  Myrtle swelle
d importantly, her face shining. 
I died.
 How? said Harry. 
No idea, said Myrtle in hushed 
tones. I just remember seeing 
a pair of great, big, yellow eyes. 
My whole body sort of seized up, and then I was floating away. . . 
. She looked dreamily at Harry. 
And then I came back again. I was determined to haunt Olive 
Hornby, you see. Oh, she was so
rry shed ever laughed at my glasses. 
Where exactly did you see 
the eyes? said Harry. 
 CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  300  Somewhere there, said Myrtle
, pointing vaguely toward the 
sink in front of her toilet. 
Harry and Ron hurried over to it. Lockhart was standing well back, a look of utte
r terror on his face. 
It looked like an ordinary sink. They examined every inch of it, 
inside and out, including the pipes below. And then Harry saw it: 
Scratched on the side of one of the copper taps was a tiny snake. That taps never worked, said My
rtle brightly as he tried to 
turn it. 
Harry, said Ron. Say something. Something in Parseltongue. 
But  Harry thought hard. Th
e only times hed ever man-
aged to speak Parseltong
ue were when hed be
en faced with a real 
snake. He stared hard at the tiny
 engraving, trying
 to imagine it 
was real. Open up, he said. 

He looked at Ron, 
who shook his head. English, he said. 
Harry looked back at the snake, willing himself to believe it was alive. If he moved his 
head, the candlelight made it look as though 
it were moving. 
Open up, he said. 
Except that the words werent wh
at he heard; a strange hissing 
had escaped him, and at once the tap glowed with a brilliant white 
light and began to spin. Next seco
nd, the sink began to move; the sink, in fact, sank, right out of sight, leaving a large pipe exposed, a 
pipe wide enough for 
a man to slide into. 
Harry heard Ron gasp an
d looked up again. He had made up his mind what he was going to do. 
 THE  CHAMBER  OF  SECRETS  301  Im going down there, he said. 
He couldnt not go, not now they
 had found the entrance to the Chamber, not if there was even 
the faintest, slimmest, wildest 
chance that Ginny might be alive. 
Me too, said Ron. There was a pause. 

Well, you hardly seem to need me, said Lockhart, with a 
shadow of his old smile. Ill just  
He put his hand on the door knob, but Ron and Harry both pointed their wands at him. You can go firs
t, Ron snarled. 

White-faced and wandless, Lockhart approached the opening. Boys, he said, his voice feeble.
 Boys, what good will it do? Harry jabbed him in the back with
 his wand. Lockhart slid his 
legs into the pipe. 
I really dont think  he star
ted to say, but Ron gave him a 
push, and he slid out of sight. Harry followed quickly. He lowered 
himself slowly into the pipe, then let go. 
It was like rushing down an endless, slimy, dark slide. He could 
see more pipes branching off in all directions, but none as large as 
theirs, which twisted and turned, sloping steeply downward, and 
he knew that he was falling deep
er below the school than even the dungeons. Behind him he could hear 
Ron, thudding slightly at the curves. 
And then, just as he had begun to worry about what would hap-pen when he hit the ground, the pi
pe leveled out, and he shot out 
of the end with a wet thud, landin
g on the damp floor of a dark stone tunnel large enough to stand in. Lockhart was getting to his  
 CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  302  feet a little ways away, covered in slime and white as a ghost. Harry 
stood aside as Ron came whizzing out of the pipe, too. We must be miles under the school, said 
Harry, his voice echo-ing in the black tunnel. 
Under the lake, probably, said Ron, squinting around at the 
dark, slimy walls. All three of them turned to stare into the darkness ahead. 
Lumos! Harry muttered to his wand and it lit again. Cmon, 
he said to Ron and Lockhart, an
d off they went, their footsteps 
slapping loudly on the wet floor. 
The tunnel was so dark that they could only see a little distance ahead. Their shadows on the wet walls looked monstrous in the wandlight. 
Remember, Harry said quietly as they walked cautiously for-
ward, any sign of movement, close your eyes right away. . . . 
But the tunnel was quiet as the gr
ave, and the first unexpected 
sound they heard was a loud crunch as Ron stepped on what turned 
out to be a rats skull. Harry lowere
d his wand to l
ook at the floor and saw that it was littered with small animal bones. Trying very 
hard not to imagine what Ginny migh
t look like if they found her, 
Harry led the way forward, around
 a dark bend in the tunnel. 
Harry  theres something up 
there  said Ron hoarsely, 
grabbing Harrys shoulder. They froze, watching. Harry could 
just see the outline of some-thing huge and curved, 
lying right across the tunnel. It wasnt mov-
ing. Maybe its asleep, he breathed, glancing back at the other two. 
Lockharts hands were pressed over
 his eyes. Harry turned back to look at the thing, his hear
t beating so fast it hurt. 
THE  CHAMBER  OF  SECRETS  303  Very slowly, his eyes as narrow as
 he could make them and still see, Harry edged forward,
 his wand held high. 
The light slid over a gigantic sn
ake skin, of a vivid, poisonous green, lying curled and empty across the tunnel floor. The creature 
that had shed it must have been twenty feet long at least. 
Blimey, said Ron weakly. 
There was a sudden movement behind them. Gilderoy Lock-
harts knees had given way. 
Get up, said Ron sharply, po
inting his wand at Lockhart. 
Lockhart got to his feet  then 
he dived at Ron, knocking him to the ground. 
Harry jumped forward, but too late  Lockhart was straighten-
ing up, panting, Rons wand in his hand and a gleaming smile back 

on his face. 
The adventure ends here, boys! 
he said. I shall take a bit of 
this skin back up to the school, te
ll them I was too late to save the 

girl, and that you two tragically lost your minds at the sight of her mangled body  say good-bye to your memories! He raised Rons Spellotaped wand
 high over his head and yelled, 
Obliviate! The wand exploded with the force of a small bomb. Harry flung 
his arms over his head and ran, sli
pping over the coils of snake skin, 
out of the way of great chunks of tunnel ceiling that were thunder-
ing to the floor. Next moment, he was standing alone, gazing at a 

solid wall of broken rock. 
Ron! he shouted. Are you okay? Ron! 

Im here! came Rons muffled
 voice from behind the rock-
fall. Im okay  this gits not,
 though  he got blasted by the 
wand  CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  304  There was a dull thud and a loud ow! It sounded as though 
Ron had just kicked Lockhart in the shins. 
What now? Rons voice said, so
unding desperate. We cant 
get through  itll 
take ages. . . . Harry looked up at the tunnel ceiling. Huge cracks had ap-
peared in it. He had never tried to break apart anything as large as 
these rocks by magic, and now di
dnt seem a good moment to 
try  what if the wh
ole tunnel caved in? 
There was another thud and another ow! from behind the 
rocks. They were wasting time. Ginny had already been in the 
Chamber of Secrets for hours. . . . Harry knew there was only one thing to do. Wait there, he called to Ron. Wait with Lockhart. Ill go on. . . . If Im not back
 in an hour . . . There was a very pregnant pause. 

Ill try and shift some of this rock, said Ron, who seemed to 
be trying to keep his voice steady. So you can  can get back through. And, Harry  
See you in a bit, said Harry, trying to inject some confidence into his shaking voice. 
And he set off alone past the giant snake skin. 
Soon the distant noise of Ron straining to shift the rocks was 
gone. The tunnel turned and turned again. Every nerve in Harrys 
body was tingling unpleasantly. He wanted the tunnel to end, yet dreaded what hed find when it di
d. And then, at last, as he crept around yet another bend, he saw 
a solid wall ahead on which two entwined serpents were carved, their 
eyes set with great, glinting 
emeralds. 

 THE  CHAMBER  OF  SECRETS  305  Harry approached, his throat very
 dry. There was no need to 
pretend these stone snakes were re
al; their eyes looked strangely 
alive. He could guess what he had to do. He cleared his throat, and the emerald eyes seemed to flicker. 
Open, said Harry, in a low, faint hiss. 
The serpents parted as the wall
 cracked open, the halves slid 
smoothly out of sight, and Harr
y, shaking from head to foot, 
walked inside. 
C H A P T E R  S E V E N T E E N   306  THE HEIR OF SLYTHERIN 
   e was standing at the end of 
a very long, dimly lit cham-
ber. Towering stone pillars entwined with more carved 
serpents rose to support a ceilin
g lost in darkness, casting long, 
black shadows through the odd, greenish
 gloom that filled the place. His heart beating very fast, Harry stood listening to the chill si-lence. Could the basilisk be lurk
ing in a shadowy corner, behind a pillar? And where was Ginny? 
He pulled out his wand and 
moved forward between the ser-
pentine columns. Every careful footstep echoed loudly off the shadowy walls. He kept his eyes
 narrowed, ready to clamp them 
shut at the smallest sign of movement. The hollow 
eye sockets of 
the stone snakes seemed to be foll
owing him. More than once, with a jolt of the stomach, he thought he saw one stir. 
Then, as he drew level with the last pair of pillars, a statue high as 
the Chamber itself loomed
 into view, standing against the back wall. 
 H THE  HEIR  OF  SLYTHERIN  307  Harry had to crane his neck to look up into the giant face above: 
It was ancient and monkeyish, with a long, thin beard that fell al-
most to the bottom of the wizard
s sweeping stone robes, where 
two enormous gray feet stood on the smooth Chamber floor. And 
between the feet, facedow
n, lay a small, black-robed figure with 
flaming-red hair. Ginny
! Harry muttered, sprinting to her and dropping to his knees. Ginny  dont be dead  
please dont be dead  He 
flung his wand aside, grabbed Ginnys shoulders, and turned her 
over. Her face was white as marble, and as cold, yet her eyes were 
closed, so she wasnt Petrifie
d. But then she must be  
Ginny, please wake up, Harry muttered desperately, shaking 
her. Ginnys head lolled hopelessly from side to side. 
She wont wake, sa
id a soft voice. 
Harry jumped and spun around on his knees. 
A tall, black-haired boy was lean
ing against the nearest pillar, 
watching. He was strangely blurred around the edges, as though 
Harry were looking at him thro
ugh a misted window. But there 
was no mistaking him  
Tom  
Tom Riddle
? Riddle nodded, not taking his eyes off Harrys face. 
What dyou mean, she wont wake? Harry said desperately. 
Shes not  shes not  ? 
Shes still alive, said Riddle. But only just. 

Harry stared at him. Tom Riddle had been at Hogwarts fifty years ago, yet here he stood, a weird, misty light shining about him, 
not a day older than sixteen. Are you a ghost? Har
ry said uncertainly.  CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN  308  A memory, said Riddle quietly. Preserved in a diary for fifty 
years. 
He pointed toward the floor near the statues giant toes. Lying 
open there was the little black diary Harry had found in Moaning Myrtles bathroom. For a second
, Harry wondered how it had got there  but there were more pr
essing matters to deal with. 
Youve got to help me, Tom, Harry said, raising Ginnys head 
again. Weve got to get her out of here. Theres a basilisk . . . I 
dont know where it is, but it 
could be along any moment. . . . 
Please, help me  Riddle didnt move. Harry, swea
ting, managed to hoist Ginny half off the floor, and bent 
to pick up his wand again. 
But his wand had gone. Did you see  ? 
He looked up. Riddle was still watching him  twirling Harrys wand between his long fingers. 
Thanks, said Harry, stretc
hing out his hand for it. 
A smile curled the corners of Riddles mouth. He continued to 
stare at Harry, twirling the wand idly. 
Listen, said Harry urgently, his knees sagging with Ginnys 
dead weight. 
Weve got to go
! If the basilisk comes  
It wont come until it is ca
lled, said Riddle calmly. Harry lowered Ginny back onto the floor, unable to hold her up 
any longer. 
What dyou mean? he said. Look, give me my wand, I might 
need it  Riddles smile broadened. 
You wont be needing it, he said. 
 THE  HEIR  OF  SLYTHERIN  309  Harry stared at him. What dyou mean, I wont be  ? 
Ive waited a long time for this
, Harry Potter, said Riddle. For 
the chance to see you. To speak to you. 
Look, said Harry, losing patience, I dont think you get it. 
Were in the Chamber of Secrets.
 We can talk later  Were going to talk now, said 
Riddle, still smiling broadly, and he pocketed Harrys wand. 
Harry stared at him. There was something very funny going on here. . . . How did Ginny get like this? he asked slowly. 

Well, thats an interesting qu
estion, said Riddle pleasantly. 
And quite a long story. I suppose
 the real reason Ginny Weasleys 

like this is because she opened he
r heart and spille
d all her secrets 
to an invisible stranger. What are you talking about? said Harry. 
The diary, said Riddle. 
My diary. Little Ginnys been writing 
in it for months and months, telling me all her pitiful worries and woes  how her brothers tease her, how she had to come to school 
with secondhand robes and books,
 how  Riddles eyes glinted  
how she didnt think famous
, good, great Harry Potter would ever 
like her. . . . All the time he spoke, Riddles ey
es never left Harrys face. There was an almost hungry look in them. Its very 
boring,
 having to listen to the silly little troubles of an 
eleven-year-old girl, he went on. 
But I was patient. I wrote back. I was sympathetic, I was kind. Ginny simply loved me. No ones ever 
understood me like you, Tom.
 . . . Im so glad Ive got this diary to
   CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN  310  confide in. . . . Its like having a friend I can carry around in my 
pocket. . . . Riddle laughed, a high, cold laugh that didnt suit him. It made 
the hairs stand up on th
e back of Harrys neck. 
If I say it myself, Harry, Ive always been able to charm the people I needed. So Ginny poured out her soul to me, and her soul 
happened to be exactly what I wanted. . . . I grew stronger and 
stronger on a diet of her deepest fears, her darkest secrets. I grew 
powerful, far more powerful than little Miss Weasley. Powerful 
enough to start feeding 
Miss Weasley a few of my secrets, to start 
pouring a little of my soul back into 
her . . . What dyou mean? said Harry, whose mouth had gone very 
dry. Havent you guessed yet, Harry Potter? said Riddle softly. 
Ginny Weasley opened the Chamber 
of Secrets. She strangled the 
school roosters and daubed threatening messages on the walls. She 
set the Serpent of Slytherin on four Mudbloods, and the Squibs cat. 
No, Harry whispered. 
Yes, said Riddle, calmly
. Of course, she didnt 
know
 what she was doing at first. It was very am
using. I wish you could have seen her new diary entries . . . far more
 interesting, they became. . . . Dear Tom, he recited, watching Harrys horrified face, I think Im 
losing my memory. There are rooster feathers all over my robes and I 
dont know how they got there. Dear Tom, I cant remember what I did 
on the night of Halloween, but a cat was attacked and Ive got paint 
all down my front. Dear Tom, Percy keeps telling me Im pale and Im 
not myself. I think he suspects me.
 . . . There was another attack today
   THE  HEIR  OF  SLYTHERIN  311  and I dont know where I was. Tom,
 what am I going to do? I think Im going mad
. . . . I think Im the one attacking everyone, Tom
! Harrys fists were clenched, the nails digging 
deep into his 
palms. It took a very long time for stupid
 little Ginny to stop trusting 
her diary, said Riddle. But sh
e finally became suspicious and 
tried to dispose of it. And thats where 
you came in, Harry. You 
found it, and I couldnt have been more delighted. Of all the people 
who could have picked it up, it was you, the very person I was most anxious to meet. . . . And why did you want to meet me? said Harry. Anger was 
coursing through him, and 
it was an effort to 
keep his voice steady. 
Well, you see, Ginny told me 
all about you, Harry, said Rid-
dle. Your whole fascinating history. His eyes roved over the light-
ning scar on Harrys forehead, an
d their expression grew hungrier. 
I knew I must find out more about you, talk to you, meet you if I 

could. So I decided to show you 
my famous capture of that great 
oaf, Hagrid, to gain your trust  
Hagrids my friend, said Harry, his voice now shaking. And 
you framed him, didnt you? I thought you made a mistake, 

but  
Riddle laughed his 
high laugh again. It was my word agai
nst Hagrids, Harry. Well, you can imagine 
how it looked to old Armando Dippet. On the one hand, Tom Riddle, poor but brilliant, parentless but so brave, school prefect, model student . . . on the other hand, big, blundering Hagrid, in 
trouble every other week, trying to raise werewolf cubs under his bed, sneaking off to the Forbidden Fo
rest to wrestle trolls . . . but I  
 CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN  312  admit, even 
I was surprised how well th
e plan worked. I thought 
someone must realize that Hagrid coul
dnt possibly be the Heir of 
Slytherin. It had taken 
me five whole years to 
find out everything I 
could about the Chamber of Secrets and discover the secret en-
trance . . . as though Hagrid 
had the brains, or the power! 
Only the Transfiguration teac
her, Dumbledore, seemed to 
think Hagrid was innocent. He pe
rsuaded Dippet to keep Hagrid and train him as gamekeeper. Yes, I think Dumbledore might have 
guessed. . . . Dumbledore never seemed to like me as much as the 
other teachers did. . . . I bet Dumbledore saw right thro
ugh you, said Harry, his teeth gritted. 
Well, he certainly kept an anno
yingly close watch on me after Hagrid was expelled, said Riddle ca
relessly. I knew it wouldnt be 
safe to open the Chamber again while I was still at school. But I wasnt going to waste those long 
years Id spent searching for it. I decided to leave behind a diary, pr
eserving my sixteen-year-old self 
in its pages, so that one day, with luck, I would be able to lead an-
other in my footsteps, and finish
 Salazar Slytherins noble work. 
Well, you havent finished it
, said Harry triumphantly. No 
ones died this time, not even the 
cat. In a few hours the Mandrake 
Draught will be ready and everyone who was Petrified will be all 
right again  Havent I already told you, said Riddle quietly, that killing 
Mudbloods doesnt matter to me an
ymore? For many months now, my new target has been  
you. Harry stared at him. Imagine how angry I was when the next time my diary was  
 THE  HEIR  OF  SLYTHERIN  313  opened, it was Ginny who was writing to me, not you. She saw you 
with the diary, you see, and panicked. What if you found out how 
to work it, and I repeated all her secrets to you? What if, even 
worse, I told you whod been strang
ling roosters? So the foolish lit-tle brat waited until your dormitory was deserted and stole it back. 
But I knew what I must do. It was clear to me that you were on the 

trail of Slytherins heir. From ev
erything Ginny had told me about 
you, I knew you would go to any lengths to solve the mystery  
particularly if one of
 your best friends wa
s attacked. And Ginny 
had told me the whole school was buzzing because you could speak Parseltongue. . . . 
So I made Ginny write her own farewell on the wall and come 
down here to wait. She struggled and cried and became very boring. 
But there isnt much life left in her. . . . She put too much into 

the diary, into me. Enough to let 
me leave its pages at last. . . . I 
have been waiting for you to appe
ar since we arrived here. I knew 
youd come. I have many questions for you, Harry Potter. 
Like what? Harry spat
, fists still clenched. Well, said Riddle, smiling pleasantly, how is it that 
you  a skinny boy with no extraord
inary magical talent  managed 
to defeat the greatest wizard of all time? How did you
 escape with nothing but a scar, while Lo
rd Voldemorts powers were de-
stroyed? There was an odd red gleam in his hungry eyes now. Why do you care how I escaped? said Harry slowly. Volde-
mort was after your time. . . . Voldemort, said Riddle softly, is my past, present, and future, 
Harry Potter. . . . 
 CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN  314  He pulled Harrys wand from his pocket and began to trace it 
through the air, writing three shimmering words: 
tom marvolo riddle  
Then he waved the wand once, an
d the letters of his name re-
arranged themselves: 
i am lord voldemort You see? he whispered. It wa
s a name I was already using at 
Hogwarts, to my most intimate friends only, of course. You think I was going to use my filthy Muggle
 fathers name forever? I, in 
whose veins runs the blood of Salazar Slytherin himself, through my mothers side? I, keep the name of a foul, common Muggle, 
who abandoned me even before I was born, just because he found 

out his wife was a witch? No, Harry  I fashioned myself a new 
name, a name I knew wizards everywhere would one day fear to 

speak, when I had become the gr
eatest sorcerer in the world! 
Harrys brain seemed to have jamme
d. He stared numbly at Rid-dle, at the orphaned boy who had 
grown up to murder Harrys own 
parents, and so many others. . . . At
 last he forced himself to speak. 
Youre not, he said, his quiet voice full of hatred. 

Not what? snapped Riddle. 
Not the greatest sorcerer in the world, said Harry, breathing 
fast. Sorry to disappo
int you and all that, but the greatest wizard in the world is Albus Dumbledore. Everyone says so. Even when 
you were strong, you didnt dare 
try and take over at Hogwarts. Dumbledore saw through you when you were at school and he still frightens you now, wherever yo
ure hiding these days  
The smile had gone from Riddles fa
ce, to be replaced by a very 
ugly look. 

 THE  HEIR  OF  SLYTHERIN  315  Dumbledores been driven out 
of this castle by the mere 
mem-ory of me! he hissed. 
Hes not as gone as you might 
think! Harry retorted. He was speaking at random, wanting to scare Riddle, wishing rather than believing it to be true  
Riddle opened his mouth, but froze. 
Music was coming from somewhere. Riddle whirled around to 
stare down the empty Chamber. The music was growing louder. It 
was eerie, spine-tingling, unearthly;
 it lifted the hair on Harrys 
scalp and made his heart feel as though it was swelling to twice its 
normal size. Then, as the music re
ached such a pitch that Harry felt 
it vibrating inside his own ribs, 
flames erupted at the top of the nearest pillar. A crimson bird the size of a swan had appeared, piping its weird 
music to the vaulted ceiling. It had a glittering
 golden tail as long 
as a peacocks and gleaming golden
 talons, which were gripping a 
ragged bundle. A second later, the bird was flying straight at Harry. It dropped the ragged thing it was 
carrying at his feet, 
then landed heavily on 
his shoulder. As it folded its grea
t wings, Harry looked up and saw 
it had a long, sharp golden beak and a beady black eye. 
The bird stopped singing. It sat still and warm next to Harrys cheek, gazing stea
dily at Riddle. 
Thats a phoenix. . . .
 said Riddle, staring shrewdly back at it. 
Fawkes
? Harry breathed, and he felt the birds golden claws 
squeeze his shoulder gently. 
And that
  said Riddle, now eyei
ng the ragged thing that Fawkes had dropped, thats the old sc
hool Sorting Hat  
 CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN  316  So it was. Patched, frayed, and 
dirty, the hat lay motionless at Harrys feet. Riddle began to laugh again. He 
laughed so hard that the dark Chamber rang with it, as though ten Riddles were laughing at once  This is what Dumbledore sends his defender! A songbird and an 
old hat! Do you feel brave, Harry 
Potter? Do you feel safe now? Harry didnt answer. He might not see what use Fawkes or the 
Sorting Hat were, but he was no lo
nger alone, and he waited for 
Riddle to stop laughing with his courage mounting. To business, Harry, said Ri
ddle, still smiling broadly. Twice  in your past, in 
my future  we have met. And twice I 
failed to kill you. 
How did you survive
? Tell me everything. The 
longer you talk, he added softly, the longer you stay alive. 
Harry was thinking fast, weighin
g his chances. Riddle had the wand. He, Harry, had Fawkes and th
e Sorting Hat, neither of which would be much good in a duel. It looked bad, all right . . . but the longer Riddle stood there, the more life was dwindling out of Ginny . . . and in the meantime, 
Harry noticed suddenly, Riddles 
outline was becoming clearer, more solid. . . . If it had to be a fight 
between him and Riddle, better sooner than later. 
No one knows why you lost your powers when you attacked me, said Harry abruptly. I dont know myself. But I know why 
you couldnt 
kill me. Because my mother died to save me. My com-
mon Muggle-born
 mother, he added, shaking with suppressed rage. 
She stopped you killin
g me. And Ive seen th
e real you, I saw you 
last year. Youre a wreck. Youre barely alive. Thats where all your 
power got you. Youre in hiding. Youre ugly, youre foul  
 THE  HEIR  OF  SLYTHERIN  317  Riddles face contorted. Then he forced it into an awful smile. 
So. Your mother died to save yo
u. Yes, thats a powerful counter-
charm. I can see now . . . there is
 nothing special about you, after 
all. I wondered, you see. There are strange likenesses between us, 

after all. Even you must have noticed. Both half-bloods, orphans, raised by Muggles. Probably the on
ly two Parselmouths to come to 
Hogwarts since the great Slytherin himself. We even 
look something 
alike . . . but after all, it was me
rely a lucky chance that saved you 
from me. Thats all I wanted to know. 
Harry stood, tense, waiting for Riddle to raise his wand. But Rid-
dles twisted smile wa
s widening again. 
Now, Harry, Im going to teach 
you a little lesson. Lets match 
the powers of Lord Voldemort, Heir of Salazar Slytherin, against fa-

mous Harry Potter, and the best
 weapons Dumbledore can give him. . . . He cast an amused eye over Fawkes and the Sorting Hat, then 
walked away. Harry, fear spreadin
g up his numb legs, watched Rid-
dle stop between the high pillars and look up into the stone face of 
Slytherin, high above him in the half-darkness. Riddle opened his 
mouth wide and hissed  but Harry understood what he was say-
ing. . . . Speak to me, Slytherin, greatest of the Hogwarts Four.
 Harry wheeled around to look up at the statue, Fawkes swaying 
on his shoulder. Slytherins gigantic stone face 
was moving. Horrorstruck, Harry 
saw his mouth opening, wider and wider, to make a huge black hole. 
And something was stirring inside
 the statues mouth. Something 
was slithering up from its depths. 
 CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN  318  Harry backed away until he hit the dark Chamber wall, and as he 
shut his eyes tight he felt Fawkes 
wing sweep his cheek as he took 
flight. Harry wanted to shout, D
ont leave me! but what chance 
did a phoenix have against the king of serpents? 
Something huge hit the stone floor of the Chamber. Harry felt it 
shudder  he knew what was happening, he could sense it, could almost see the giant serpent uncoilin
g itself from Slytherins mouth. 
Then he heard Riddles hissing voice: 
Kill him. The basilisk was moving toward Harry; he could hear its heavy body slithering heavily across the du
sty floor. Eyes still tightly shut, 
Harry began to run blindly sideways, his hand
s outstretched, feel-
ing his way  Voldemort was laughing  
Harry tripped. He fell hard onto the stone and tasted blood  
the serpent was barely feet from 
him, he could hear it coming  There was a loud, explosive spitting sound right above him, and 
then something heavy hit Harry so ha
rd that he was smashed into 
the wall. Waiting for fangs to sink through his body he heard more 
mad hissing, something thrash
ing wildly off the pillars  
He couldnt help it  he opened
 his eyes wide enough to squint 
at what was going on. The enormous serpent, bright, poisonous green, thick as an oak 
trunk, had raised itself high in th
e air and its great blunt head was 
weaving drunkenly between the pillars. As Harry trembled, ready to 
close his eyes if it turned, he sa
w what had distra
cted the snake. 
Fawkes was soaring around its head
, and the basilisk was snapping 
furiously at him with fangs long and thin as sabers  
Fawkes dived. His long golden beak sank out of sight and a  
 THE  HEIR  OF  SLYTHERIN  319  sudden shower of dark blood spattered the floor. The snakes tail 
thrashed, narrowly missing Harry, and before Harry could shut his eyes, it turned  Harry looked straig
ht into its face and saw that its 
eyes, both its great, bulbous yellow eyes, had been punctured by the 
phoenix; blood was streaming to th
e floor, and the snake was spitting in agony.
 NO! Harry heard Riddle screaming. LEAVE THE BIRD! 
LEAVE THE BIRD! THE BOY IS BEHIND YOU! YOU CAN 
STILL SMELL HIM! KILL HIM! The blinded serpent swayed, confused, still deadly. Fawkes was 
circling its head, piping his eerie 
song, jabbing here and there at its 
scaly nose as the blood poured from its ruined eyes. Help me, help me, Harry mu
ttered wildly, someone  any-
one  The snakes tail whipped across 
the floor again. Harry ducked. Something soft hit his face. 
The basilisk had swept the Sorting Hat into Harrys arms. Harry 
seized it. It was all he had left, his
 only chance  he rammed it onto 
his head and threw himself flat onto the floor as the basilisks tail 
swung over him again. Help me  help me  Harry thought, his eyes screwed tight un-der the hat. Please help me
  There was no answering voice. In
stead, the hat contracted, as 
though an invisible hand was 
squeezing it very tightly. 
Something very hard and heavy thudded onto the top of Harrys head, almost knocking him out. Stars winking in front of his eyes, he grabbed the top of the hat to pull 
it off and felt something long and 
hard beneath it. 
 CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN  320  A gleaming silver sword had appeared inside the hat, its handle glittering with rubies the size of eggs.
 KILL THE BOY! LEAVE THE BIRD! THE BOY IS BEHIND 
YOU! SNIFF  SMELL HIM! Harry was on his feet, ready. The ba
silisks head was falling, its 
body coiling around, hitting pillar
s as it twisted to face him. He 
could see the vast, bloody eye socket
s, see the mouth stretching wide, 
wide enough to swallow him whole, lined with fangs long as his 
sword, thin, glittering, venomous  
It lunged blindly  Harry dodged and it hit the Chamber wall. It 
lunged again, and its forked tongue lashed Harrys side. He raised 
the sword in both his hands  
The basilisk lunged again, and this time its aim was true  Harry 
threw his whole weight behind the sword and drove it to the hilt into the roof of the serpents mouth  
But as warm blood drenched Harrys arms, he felt a searing pain just above his elbow. One long, poisonous fang was sinking deeper 
and deeper into his arm and it splint
ered as the basilisk keeled over sideways and fell, twit
ching, to the floor. Harry slid down the wall. He gripped the fang that was spreading poison through his body and wrenched it out of his arm. But he 
knew it was too late. White-hot 
pain was spreading slowly and 
steadily from the wound. Even as
 he dropped the fang and watched 
his own blood soaking his robes, hi
s vision went foggy. The Cham-
ber was dissolving in a 
whirl of dull color. 
A patch of scarlet swam past, and Harry heard a soft clatter of claws beside him. Fawkes, said Harry thickly. You were fantastic, Fawkes. . . .  
 THE  HEIR  OF  SLYTHERIN  321  He felt the bird lay its beautiful he
ad on the spot where the serpents 
fang had pierced him. 
He could hear echoing footsteps and then a dark shadow moved in front of him. 
Youre dead, Harry Potter, said Riddles voice above him. Dead. 
Even Dumbledores bird knows it. Do
 you see what hes doing, Pot-
ter? Hes crying. 
Harry blinked. Fawkess head slid
 in and out of focus. Thick, 
pearly tears were trickling
 down the glossy feathers. Im going to sit here and watch you die, Harry Potter. Take your 
time. Im in no hurry. 
Harry felt drowsy. Everything around
 him seemed to be spinning. So ends the famous Harry Potter, said Riddles distant voice. 
Alone in the Chamber of Secrets, 
forsaken by his friends, defeated 
at last by the Dark Lord he so 
unwisely challenged
. Youll be back 
with your dear Mudblood mother soon, Harry. . . . She bought you 

twelve years of borrowed time . . . but Lord Voldemort got you in 
the end, as you kn
ew he must. . . . If this is dying, thought Harry, 
its not so bad.
 Even the pain was 
leaving him. . . . But was this dying? Instead of going black, the 
Chamber seemed 
to be coming back into focus. Harr
y gave his head a little shake and 
there was Fawkes, still resting his
 head on Harrys arm. A pearly patch of tears was shining all around the wound  except that there 

was no wound  
Get away, bird, said Riddles voice suddenly. Get away from 
him  I said, 
get away
  Harry raised his head. Riddle wa
s pointing Harrys wand at  
 CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN  322  Fawkes; there was a bang like a gun,
 and Fawkes took flight again in 
a whirl of gold and scarlet. 
Phoenix tears . . . said Riddle quietly, staring at Harrys arm. 
Of course . . . healing powe
rs . . . I forgot . . . 
He looked into Harrys face. But it makes no difference. In fact, 
I prefer it this way. Just you 
and me, Harry Potter . . . you and 
me. . . . He raised the wand  

Then, in a rush of wings, Fawkes
 had soared back overhead and 
something fell into Harrys lap  
the diary. For a split second, both Harry and Ri
ddle, wand still raised, stared 
at it. Then, without thinking, without considering, as though he had 
meant to do it all along, Harry seiz
ed the basilisk fang on the floor next to him and plunge
d it straight into the heart of the book. 
There was a long, dreadful, pierci
ng scream. Ink spurted out of the diary in torrents, streaming over Harrys hands, flooding the 

floor. Riddle was writhing and twisting, screaming and flailing and 
then  He had gone. Harrys wand fell 
to the floor with a clatter and 
there was silence. Silence except for the steady 
drip drip of ink still 
oozing from the diary. The basili
sk venom had burned a sizzling hole right through it. 
Shaking all over, Harry pulled hims
elf up. His head was spinning 
as though hed just traveled miles by Floo powder. Slowly, he gath-

ered together his wand and the Sort
ing Hat, and, with a huge tug, 
retrieved the glittering sword from the roof of the basilisks mouth. 
Then came a faint moan from the end of the Chamber. Ginny 
was stirring. As Harry hurried towa
rd her, she sat up. Her bemused  
 THE  HEIR  OF  SLYTHERIN  323  eyes traveled from the huge form of the dead basilisk, over Harry, in 
his blood-soaked robes, then to the diary in his hand. She drew a great, shuddering ga
sp and tears began to pour down her face. 
Harry  oh, Harry  I tried to 
tell you at b-breakfast, but I 
c-couldnt
 say it in front 
of Percy  it was 
me,
 Harry  but I  I 
s-swear I d-didnt mean to  R-
Riddle made me, he t-took me 
over  and  how did you kill that  that thing? W-wheres 
Riddle? The last thing I r-remember is him coming out of the 
diary  Its all right, said Harry, hold
ing up the diary, and showing Ginny the fang hole, Riddles finished. Look! Him 
and the basilisk. 
Cmon, Ginny, lets get out of here  
Im going to be expelled! Ginny wept as Harry helped her awk-wardly to her feet. Ive looked forward to coming to Hogwarts ever 
since B-Bill came and n-now 
Ill have to leave and  
w-whatll 
Mum and Dad say? Fawkes was waiting for them, hovering in the Chamber entrance. 
Harry urged Ginny forward; they stepped over the motionless coils 
of the dead basilisk, through the echoing gloom, and back into the 
tunnel. Harry heard the stone doors close behind them with a soft 
hiss. After a few minutes progress up 
the dark tunnel, a distant sound 
of slowly shifting rock reached Harrys ears. 
Ron! Harry yelled, speeding up. 
Ginnys okay! Ive got her! 
He heard Ron give a strangled cheer, and they turned the next bend to see his eager face starin
g through the sizable gap he had 
managed to make in the rockfall. 
Ginny! Ron thrust an arm through 
the gap in the rock to pull   CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN  324  her through first. Youre alive! I dont believe it! What happened? 
How  what  where did that bird come from? 
Fawkes had swooped through the gap after Ginny. Hes Dumbledores, said Ha
rry, squeezing through himself. How come youve got a 
sword
? said Ron, gaping at the glitter-
ing weapon in Harrys hand. 
Ill explain when we get out of here, said Harry with a sideways glance at Ginny, who was crying harder than ever. 
But  

Later, Harry said shortly. He didn
t think it was a good idea to 
tell Ron yet whod been opening the Chamber, not in front of Ginny, 
anyway. Wheres Lockhart? 
Back there, said Ron, still look
ing puzzled but jerking his head 
up the tunnel toward the pipe. Hes in a bad way. Come and see. 
Led by Fawkes, whose wide scarlet wings emitted a soft golden 
glow in the darkness, they walked 
all the way back 
to the mouth of 
the pipe. Gilderoy Lockhart was si
tting there, humming placidly to 
himself. 
His memorys gone, said Ron. The Memory Charm backfired. 
Hit him instead of us. Hasnt got a cl
ue who he is, or where he is, or 
who we are. I told him to come an
d wait here. Hes a danger to him-
self. 
Lockhart peered good-naturedly up at them all. 
Hello, he said. Odd sort of place,
 this, isnt it? Do you live here? 
No, said Ron, raising his eyebrows at Harry. 
Harry bent down and looked up the long, dark pipe. 
Have you thought how were going to get back up this? he said 
to Ron.  THE  HEIR  OF  SLYTHERIN  325  Ron shook his head, but Fawkes 
the phoenix had swooped past Harry and was now fluttering in front of him, his beady eyes bright 
in the dark. He was waving his long golden tail feathers. Harry looked uncertainly at him. 
He looks like he wants you to grab hold . . . said Ron, look-
ing perplexed. But youre much too heavy for a bird to pull up there  Fawkes, said Harry, isnt an 
ordinary bird. He turned quickly to the others. Weve got to hold on to each other. Ginny, grab Rons 
hand. Professor Lockhart  
He means you, said Ron sharply to Lockhart. 
You hold Ginnys other hand  
Harry tucked the sword and the Sorting Hat into his belt, Ron 
took hold of the back of Harry
s robes, and Harry reached out and took hold of Fawkess st
rangely hot tail feathers. 
An extraordinary lightness seemed
 to spread through his whole 
body and the next second, in a rush of wings, they were flying 
upward through the pipe. Harry could hear Lockhart dangling 
below him, saying, Amazing! Amazin
g! This is just like magic! 
The chill air was whipping through Harrys hair, and before hed 
stopped enjoying the ride, it was over  all four of them were hit-
ting the wet floor of Moaning Myrtles bathroom, and as Lockhart 
straightened his hat, the sink that 
hid the pipe was sliding back into place. Myrtle goggled at them. 
Youre alive, she said blankly to Harry. 
Theres no need to sound so di
sappointed, he said grimly, wip-ing flecks of blood and slime off his glasses.  CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN  326  Oh, well . . . Id just been thinking . . . if you had died, youd have been welcome to share my toilet, said Myrtle, blushing silver. 
Urgh! said Ron as they left the bathroom for the dark, deserted corridor outside. Harry! I think Myrtles grown 
fond of you! Youve got competition, Ginny! 
But tears were still flooding silently down Ginnys face. 
Where now? said Ron, with an
 anxious look at Ginny. Harry pointed. Fawkes was leading the way, glowing gold along the corridor. They strode after him, and moments later, found themselves outside 
Professor McGonagalls office. 
Harry knocked and push
ed the door open. C H A P T E R  E I G H T E E N   327  DOBBYS REWARD 
   or a moment there was silenc
e as Harry, Ron, Ginny, and 
Lockhart stood in the doorway, covered in muck and slime and (in Harrys case) blood. Then there was a scream. Ginny! It was Mrs. Weasley, who had been
 sitting crying in front of the 
fire. She leapt to her feet, closely followed by Mr. Weasley, and both 
of them flung themselves on their daughter. 
Harry, however, was looking pa
st them. Professor Dumbledore was standing by the mantelpiece, 
beaming, next to Professor Mc-Gonagall, who was taking great, 
steadying gasps, clutching her 
chest. Fawkes went whooshing pa
st Harrys ear and settled on 
Dumbledores shoulder, just as 
Harry found himself and Ron being swept into Mrs. Weasleys tight embrace. 
You saved her! You saved her! 
How did you do it? I think wed all like to know 
that, said Professor McGonagall weakly. F CHAPTER  EIGHTEEN  328  Mrs. Weasley let go of Harry, wh
o hesitated for a moment, then walked over to the desk and laid 
upon it the Sorting Hat, the ruby-
encrusted sword, and what remained of Riddles diary. 
Then he started telling them everything. For nearly a quarter of 
an hour he spoke into the rapt silence: He told them about hearing 
the disembodied voice, how Hermio
ne had finally realized that he 
was hearing a basilisk in the pipes; how he and Ron had followed 
the spiders into the forest, that Aragog had told them where the last 
victim of the basilisk had died; how he had guessed that Moaning 
Myrtle had been the victim, and that the entrance to the Chamber 
of Secrets might be in her bathroom. . . . 
Very well, Professor McGonagall
 prompted him as he paused, 
so you found out where the entrance was  breaking a hundred 
school rules into pieces along the way, I might add  but how on 
earth did you all get out of there alive, Potter? 
So Harry, his voice now growing hoarse from all this talking, 
told them about Fawkess timely arrival and about the Sorting Hat 

giving him the sword. But then he
 faltered. He had so far avoided 
mentioning Riddles diary  or Gi
nny. She was standing with her 
head against Mrs. Weasleys shoulder, and tears were still coursing 
silently down her cheeks. 
What if they expelled her
? Harry thought in panic. Riddles diary didnt wo
rk anymore. . . . How could they prove it had been 
he whod made her do it all? Instinctively, Harry looked at Dumbledore, who smiled faintly, 
the firelight glancing off his half-moon spectacles. 
What interests 
me most, said Dumbledore gently, is how 
Lord Voldemort managed to enchant Ginny, when my sources tell 
me he is currently in hiding
 in the forests of Albania. 
 DOBBYS  REWARD  329  Relief  warm, sweeping, glor
ious relief  swept over Harry. W-whats that? said Mr. Weasley in a stunned voice. 
You-Know-Who
? En-enchant Ginny
? But Ginnys not . . . Ginny hasnt 
been . . . has she? It was this diary, said Harry qu
ickly, picking it up and show-
ing it to Dumbledore. Riddle wrote it when he was sixteen. . . . 
Dumbledore took the diary from Harry and peered keenly down his long, crooked nose at its burnt and soggy pages. 
Brilliant, he said softly. Of 
course, he was probably the most brilliant student Hogwarts has ever
 seen. He turned around to the 
Weasleys, who were looking utterly bewildered. 
Very few people know that Lo
rd Voldemort was once called 
Tom Riddle. I taught him myself, fi
fty years ago, at Hogwarts. He 
disappeared after leaving the school 
. . . traveled far and wide . . . sank so deeply into the Dark Arts
, consorted with the very worst of 
our kind, underwent so many dang
erous, magical transformations, 
that when he resurfaced as Lord 
Voldemort, he was barely recog-
nizable. Hardly anyone connected Lord Voldemort with the clever, 
handsome boy who was once Head Boy here. 
But, Ginny, said Mrs. Weasley.
 Whats our Ginny got to do 
with  with  him? His d-diary! Ginny sobbed. Iv
e b-been writing in it, and hes 
been w-writing ba
ck all year  Ginny
! said Mr. Weasley, flabberg
asted. Havent I taught you 
anything? What have I always told you? Never trust anything that can think for itself 
if you cant see where it keeps its brain.
 Why didnt 
you show the diary to me, or your mother? A suspicious object like 
that, it was 
clearly full of Dark Magic  
 CHAPTER  EIGHTEEN  330  I d-didnt know, sobbed Ginny.
 I found it inside one of the books Mum got me. I th-thought someone had just left it in there 
and forgotten about it  
Miss Weasley should go up to the hospital wing right away, 
Dumbledore interrupted in a firm 
voice. This has been a terrible ordeal for her. There will be no
 punishment. Older and wiser wiz-
ards than she have been hoodwinked by Lord Voldemort. He strode over to the door and opened it
. Bed rest and perhaps a large, steaming mug of hot chocolate. I al
ways find that cheers me up, 
he added, twinkling kindly down at her. You will find that Madam 
Pomfrey is still awake. Shes just
 giving out Mandrake juice  I 
daresay the basilisks victims will be waking up any moment. 
So Hermiones okay! said Ron brightly. 

There has been no lasting harm
 done, Ginny, said Dumble-
dore. Mrs. Weasley led Ginny out, and Mr. Weasley followed, still looking deeply shaken. 
You know, Minerva, Professor Dumbledore said thoughtfully 
to Professor McGonagall, I think all this merits a good feast.
 Might I ask you to go and alert the kitchens? 
Right, said Professor McGonaga
ll crisply, also moving to the 
door. Ill leave you to deal with Potter and Weasley, shall I? Certainly, said Dumbledore. 

She left, and Harry and Ron gazed uncertainly at Dumbledore. 
What exactly had Professor McGonagall meant, 
deal with them? 
Surely  surely
  they werent about to be punished? 
I seem to remember telling you both that I would have to expel 
you if you broke any more scho
ol rules, said Dumbledore. 
 DOBBYS  REWARD  331  Ron opened his mouth in horror. 
Which goes to show that the best of us must sometimes eat our 
words, Dumbledore went on, smilin
g. You will both receive Spe-
cial Awards for Services to the School and  let me see  yes, I 
think two hundred points 
apiece for Gryffindor. 
Ron went as brightly pink as Lockharts valentine flowers and 
closed his mouth again. But one of us seems to be keeping mightily quiet about his part 
in this dangerous adventure, Du
mbledore added. Why so mod-est, Gilderoy? 
Harry gave a start. He had completely forgotten about Lockhart. 
He turned and saw that Lockhart 
was standing in a corner of the 
room, still wearing his vague sm
ile. When Dumbledore addressed him, Lockhart looked over his sh
oulder to see who he was talking 
to. Professor Dumbledore, Ron said
 quickly, there was an 
accident down in the Chamber of Secrets. Professor Lockhart  
Am I a professor? said Lockhart 
in mild surprise. Goodness. I 
expect I was hopeless, was I? 
He tried to do a Memory Charm 
and the wand backfired, Ron explained quietly to Dumbledore. Dear me, said Dumbledore, shaking his head, his long silver 
mustache quivering. Impaled upon your own sword, Gilderoy! 
Sword? said Lockhart dimly. Havent got a sword. That boy 
has, though. He pointed at Harry. Hell lend you one. 
Would you mind taking Profes
sor Lockhart up to the infir-
mary, too? Dumbledore said to Ron. Id like a few more words with Harry. . . .  CHAPTER  EIGHTEEN  332  Lockhart ambled out. Ron cast 
a curious look back at Dumble-dore and Harry as he closed the door. 
Dumbledore crossed to one of the chairs by the fire. 
Sit down, Harry, he said, and Harry sat, feeling unaccountably nervous. 
First of all, Harry, I want to 
thank you, said Dumbledore, eyes 
twinkling again. You must have
 shown me real 
loyalty down in 
the Chamber. Nothing but that could have called Fawkes to you. He stroked the phoenix, whic
h had fluttered down onto his knee. Harry grinned awkwardly 
as Dumbledore watched him. And so you met Tom Riddle, 
said Dumbledore thoughtfully. 
I imagine he was 
most interested in you. . . . 
Suddenly, something that was na
gging at Harry came tumbling out of his mouth. Professor Dumbledore . . . Riddle said Im like him. Strange likenesses, he 
said. . . . Did he, now? said Dumbledore, looking thoughtfully at Harry 
from under his thick silver eyeb
rows. And what do you think, Harry? 
I dont think Im like him! said Harry, more loudly than hed 
intended. I mean, Im  Im in Gryffindor,
 Im . . . But he fell silent, a lurking doubt resurfacing in his mind. 
Professor, he started again after a moment. The Sorting Hat 
told me Id  Id have done well in Slytherin. Everyone thought 
I was Slytherins heir for a while . . . because I can speak Parsel
-tongue. . . . You can speak Parseltongue, Harry, said Dumbledore calmly, 
because Lord Voldemort  who 
is the last remaining descendant  
 DOBBYS  REWARD  333  of Salazar Slytherin  can speak Parseltongue. Unless Im much 
mistaken, he transferred some of his own powers to you the night 
he gave you that scar. Not something he intended to do, Im 

sure. . . . Voldemort put a bit of himself in 
me? Harry said, thunder-struck. It certainly seems so. 
So I should
 be in Slytherin, Harry 
said, looking desperately 
into Dumbledores face. The So
rting Hat could see Slytherins 
power in me, and it  Put you in Gryffindor, said
 Dumbledore calmly. Listen to me, Harry. You happen to have ma
ny qualities Salazar Slytherin prized in his hand-picked students.
 His own very rare gift, Parsel-tongue  resourcefulness  determination  a certain disregard 
for rules, he added, his mustache quivering again. Yet the Sorting 
Hat placed you in Gryffindor. You know why that was. Think. 
It only put me in Gryffindor, said Harry in a defeated voice, 
because I asked not to go in Slytherin. . . . 
Exactly, said Dumbledore, beaming once more. Which makes 
you very different
 from Tom Riddle. It is our choices, Harry, that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities. Harry sat mo-tionless in his chair, stunned. I
f you want proof, Harry, that you 
belong in Gryffindor, I suggest
 you look more closely at 
this. Dumbledore reached across to Pr
ofessor McGonagalls desk, 
picked up the blood-stained silver sword, and handed it to Harry. Dully, Harry turned it over, the rubies blazing in the firelight. And 
then he saw the name engraved just below the hilt.
 Godric Gryffindor.
  CHAPTER  EIGHTEEN  334  Only a true Gryffindor could have pulled 
that out of the hat, Harry, said Dumbledore simply. 
For a minute, neither of them 
spoke. Then Dumbledore pulled open one of the drawers in Profes
sor McGonagalls desk and took 
out a quill and a bottle of ink. 
What you need, Harry, is some food and sleep. I suggest you go 
down to the feast, while I write to Azkaban  we need our game-keeper back. And I must draft an advertisement for the 
Daily Prophet, too, he added thoughtfully. Well be needing a new De-fense Against the Dark Arts teache
r. . . . Dear me, we do seem to 
run through them, dont we? 
Harry got up and crossed to the door. He had just reached for the handle, however, when the door burst open so violently that it 
bounced back off the wall. Lucius Malfoy stood there, fury in his fa
ce. And cowering be-
hind his legs, heavily wr
apped in bandages, was Dobby. Good evening, Lucius, said Dumbledore pleasantly. 
Mr. Malfoy almost knocked Harry 
over as he swept into the room. Dobby went scurrying in after him, crouching at the hem of 
his cloak, a look of abject terror on his face. 
The elf was carrying a stained rag with which he was attempting 
to finish cleaning Mr. Malfoys 
shoes. Apparently Mr. Malfoy had 
set out in a great hurry, for not only were his shoes half-polished, 
but his usually sleek hair was dish
eveled. Ignoring the elf bobbing apologetically around his ankles, he fixed his cold eyes upon Dum-
bledore. So! he said Youve come back
. The governors suspended you, 
but you still saw fit to return to Hogwarts. 

 DOBBYS  REWARD  335  Well, you see, Lucius, said Du
mbledore, smiling serenely, the 
other eleven governors contacted me today. It was something like being caught in a hailstorm of owls
, to tell the truth. Theyd heard 
that Arthur Weasleys 
daughter had been ki
lled and wanted me 
back here at once. They seemed to think I was the best man for the 
job after all. Very strang
e tales they told me, too. . . . Several of 
them seemed to think that you had threatened to curse their fami-
lies if they didnt agree to 
suspend me in the first place. 
Mr. Malfoy went even paler than 
usual, but his eyes were still 
slits of fury. 
So  have you stopped the attacks yet? he sneered. Have you 
caught the culprit? 
We have, said Dumbledore, with a smile. 
Well? said Mr. Malfoy sharply. Who is it? 
The same person as last time, Lucius, said Dumbledore. But 
this time, Lord Voldemort was ac
ting through somebody else. By 

means of this diary. 
He held up the small black book 
with the large hole through the 
center, watching Mr. Malfoy closely. Harry, however, was watching 
Dobby. The elf was doing something very odd. His great eyes fixed meaningfully on Harry, he kept pointing at the diary, then at Mr. 
Malfoy, and then hitting himself hard on the head wi
th his fist. I see . . . said Mr. Malfoy slowly to Dumbledore. 
A clever plan, said Dumbledore in a level voice, still staring 
Mr. Malfoy straight in the eye.
 Because if Harry here  Mr. Malfoy shot Harry a swift, sharp look  and his friend Ron hadnt 
discovered this book, why  Ginny
 Weasley might have taken all   CHAPTER  EIGHTEEN  336  the blame. No one would ever have been able to prove she hadnt 
acted of her own free will. . . . 
Mr. Malfoy said nothing. His 
face was suddenly masklike. 
And imagine, Dumbledore went on, what might have hap-
pened then. . . . The Weasleys are one of our most prominent 
pure-blood families. Imagine the effect on Arthur Weasley and his Muggle Protection Act,
 if his own daughter 
was discovered attack-ing and killing Muggle-borns. . . . Very fortunate the diary was dis-
covered, and Riddles
 memories wiped from
 it. Who knows what the consequences might have
 been otherwise. . . . Mr. Malfoy forced himself to speak. 

Very fortunate, he said stiffly. 
And still, behind his 
back, Dobby was pointing, first to the di-
ary, then to Lucius Malfoy, then punching himself
 in the head. 
And Harry suddenly understood. He nodded at Dobby, and Dobby backed into a corner, now twisting his ears in punishment. 
Dont you want to know how Ginny
 got hold of that diary, Mr. 
Malfoy? said Harry. Lucius Malfoy rounded on him. How should I know how the stupid little girl got hold of it? he 
said. Because you gave it to her, said Harry. In Flourish and Blotts. 
You picked up her old Transfiguration book and slipped the diary 
inside it, didnt you? 
He saw Mr. Malfoys white 
hands clench and unclench. 
Prove it, he hissed. 
Oh, no one will be able to do that, said Dumbledore, smiling 
at Harry. Not now that Riddle ha
s vanished from the book. On  
 DOBBYS  REWARD  337  the other hand, I would 
advise you, Lucius, no
t to go giving out 
any more of Lord Voldemorts old school things. If any more of 
them find their way into innocent
 hands, I think Arthur Weasley, 
for one, will make sure they are traced back to you. . . . 
Lucius Malfoy stood for a moment, and Harry distinctly saw his right hand twitch as though he 
was longing to reach for his wand. 
Instead, he turned to his house-elf. 
Were going, Dobby! 

He wrenched open the door and as the elf came hurrying up to him, he kicked him right throug
h it. They could hear Dobby 
squealing with pain all the way along the corridor. Harry stood for 

a moment, thinking hard. Then it came to him  
Professor Dumbledore, he said hu
rriedly. Can I give that di-
ary 
back to Mr. Malfoy, please? 
Certainly, Harry, said Dumble
dore calmly. But hurry. The feast, remember. . . . Harry grabbed the diary and dashed
 out of the office. He could hear Dobbys squeals of pain receding around the corner. Quickly, 
wondering if this plan could possibly work, Harry took off one of his shoes, pulled off his slimy, filt
hy sock, and stuffed the diary into 
it. Then he ran down the dark corridor. 
He caught up with them at the top of the stairs. 
Mr. Malfoy, he gasped, skidding to a halt, Ive got something 
for you  And he forced the smelly sock
 into Lucius Malfoys hand. 
What the  ? 
Mr. Malfoy ripped the sock off the diary, threw it aside, then 
looked furiously from th
e ruined book to Harry. 
 CHAPTER  EIGHTEEN  338  Youll meet the same sticky end as your parents one of these 
days, Harry Potter, he said sof
tly. They were meddlesome fools, too. He turned to go. Come, Dobby. I said, 
come. But Dobby didnt move. He was 
holding up Harrys disgusting, 
slimy sock, and looking at it as though it were a priceless treasure. 
Master has given a sock, said the elf in wonderment. Master 
gave it to Dobby. 
Whats that? spat Mr. Ma
lfoy. What did you say? 
Got a sock, said Dobby in di
sbelief. Master threw it, and 
Dobby caught it, and Dobby  Dobby is free. Lucius Malfoy stood frozen, staring at the elf. Then he lunged at Harry. Youve lost me my servant, boy! 
But Dobby shouted, You shal
l not harm Harry Potter! 
There was a loud bang, and Mr. 
Malfoy was thrown backward. 
He crashed down the stairs, three at
 a time, landing in a crumpled 
heap on the landing below. He got 
up, his face livid, and pulled out his wand, but Dobby raised a long, threatening finger. 
You shall go now, he said fiercely, pointing down at Mr. Mal-
foy. You shall not touch Harry
 Potter. You shall go now. 
Lucius Malfoy had no choice. With
 a last, incensed stare at the 
pair of them, he swung his cloak around him and hurried out of 
sight. Harry Potter freed Dobby! said 
the elf shrilly, gazing up at Harry, moonlight from the nearest window reflected in his orb-like eyes. Harry Potter set Dobby free! 
 DOBBYS  REWARD  339  Least I could do, Dobby, said
 Harry, grinning. Just promise never to try and save my life again. 
The elfs ugly brown face split suddenly into a wide, toothy 
smile. Ive just got one question, Dobby, said Harry as Dobby pulled 
on Harrys sock with shaking hands. You told me all this had 
nothing to do with He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, remember? 
Well  It was a clue, sir, said Dobby, hi
s eyes widening, as though this 
was obvious. Was giving you a 
clue. The Dark Lord, before he changed his name, could be
 freely named, you see? 
Right, said Harry weakly. Well, Id better go. Theres a feast, 
and my friend Hermione should be awake by now. . . . 
Dobby threw his arms around Harrys middle and hugged him. 
Harry Potter is greater by far than Dobby knew! he sobbed. 
Farewell, Harry Potter! 
And with a final loud cr
ack, Dobby disappeared.  Harry had been to several Hogwarts 
feasts, but never one quite like 
this. Everybody was in their pajama
s, and the celebration lasted all 
night. Harry didnt know whethe
r the best bit was Hermione run-
ning toward him, screaming You solv
ed it! You solved it! or Justin 
hurrying over from the Hufflepuff table to wring his hand and 
apologize endlessly for suspecting him, or Hagrid turning up at 

half past three, cuffing Harry an
d Ron so hard on the shoulders 
that they were knocked into their 
plates of trifle, or his and Rons 
four hundred points for Gryffin
dor securing the House Cup for the second year running, or Professor McGonagall standing up to  
 CHAPTER  EIGHTEEN  340  tell them all that the exams had been canceled as a school treat 
(Oh, no! said Hermione), or Dumbledore announcing that, un-fortunately, Professor Lockhart would be unable to return next 
year, owing to the fact that he needed to go away and get his mem-
ory back. Quite a few of the teachers joined in the cheering that 
greeted this news. Shame, said Ron, helping himself to a jam doughnut. He was 
starting to grow on me.  The rest of the final term passed in a haze of blazing sunshine. Hogwarts was back to normal with only a few, small differences  Defense Against the Dark Arts classes were canceled (but weve had 

plenty of practice at that anyway, Ron told a disgruntled 
Hermione) and Lucius Malfoy had been sacked as a school gover-nor. Draco was no longer strutting 
around the school as though he owned the place. On the contrary,
 he looked resentful and sulky. 
On the other hand, Ginny Weasle
y was perfectly happy again. 
Too soon, it was time for the journey home on the Hogwarts Ex-
press. Harry, Ron, Hermione, Fr
ed, George, and Ginny got a com-
partment to themselves. They made
 the most of the last few hours 
in which they were allowed to do magic before the holidays. They 
played Exploding Snap, set off the very last of Fred and Georges 
Filibuster fireworks, and practiced disarming each other by magic. 
Harry was getting very good at it. They were almost at Kings Cross when Harry remembered 
something. 
Ginny  what did you see Perc
y doing, that he didnt want 
you to tell anyone? 
 DOBBYS  REWARD  341  Oh, that, said Ginny, giggling. Well  Percys got a 
girlfriend. Fred dropped a stack of books on Georges head.
 What
? Its that Ravenclaw prefect, Pene
lope Clearwater, said Ginny. 
Thats who he was writing to all last summer. Hes been meeting 
her all over the school in secret. I walked in on them 
kissing 
in an 
empty classroom one day. He was so upset when she was  you 
know  attacked. You wont tease him, will you? she added anx-
iously. 
Wouldnt dream of it, said 
Fred, who was looking like his 
birthday had come early. 
Definitely not, said George, sniggering. 
The Hogwarts Express slowed and finally stopped. 
Harry pulled out his quill and a bit of parchment and turned to Ron and Hermione. 
This is called a telephone number, he told Ron, scribbling it 
twice, tearing the parchment in tw
o, and handing it to them. I 
told your dad how to use a telephone last summer  hell know. Call me at the Dursleys, okay? 
I cant stand another two months 
with only Dudley to talk to. . . . 
Your aunt and uncle will be prou
d, though, wont they? said 
Hermione as they got off the trai
n and joined the crowd thronging toward the enchanted barrier. Wh
en they hear what you did this 
year? Proud? said Harry. Are you crazy? All those times I couldve 
died, and I didnt manage it? Theyll be furious. . . . 
And together they walked back
 through the gateway to the 
Muggle world. 
DOBBYS  REWARD  341  Oh, that, said Ginny, giggling. Well  Percys got a 
girlfriend. Fred dropped a stack of books on Georges head.
 What
? Its that Ravenclaw prefect, Pene
lope Clearwater, said Ginny. 
Thats who he was writing to all last summer. Hes been meeting 
her all over the school in secret. I walked in on them 
kissing 
in an 
empty classroom one day. He was so upset when she was  you 
know  attacked. You wont tease him, will you? she added anx-
iously. 
Wouldnt dream of it, said 
Fred, who was looking like his 
birthday had come early. 
Definitely not, said George, sniggering. 
The Hogwarts Express slowed and finally stopped. 
Harry pulled out his quill and a bit of parchment and turned to Ron and Hermione. 
This is called a telephone number, he told Ron, scribbling it 
twice, tearing the parchment in tw
o, and handing it to them. I 
told your dad how to use a telephone last summer  hell know. Call me at the Dursleys, okay? 
I cant stand another two months 
with only Dudley to talk to. . . . 
Your aunt and uncle will be prou
d, though, wont they? said 
Hermione as they got off the trai
n and joined the crowd thronging toward the enchanted barrier. Wh
en they hear what you did this 
year? Proud? said Harry. Are you crazy? All those times I couldve 
died, and I didnt manage it? Theyll be furious. . . . 
And together they walked back
 through the gateway to the 
Muggle world. 
  
  This book was art directed by David Saylor. The art for both the jacket and the interior was 
created using pastels on toned printmaking paper. The 
text was set in 12-point Adobe Garamond, a typeface based on the 
sixteenth-century type designs of Claude Garamond, redrawn by Robert Slimbach in 1989. The book was printed and bound at Quebecor World. The Managing Editor was Manuela Soares. The 
production was supervised 
by Angela Biola and Mike 
Derevjanik.    
  This book was art directed by David Saylor. The art for both the jacket and the interior was 
created using pastels on toned printmaking paper. The 
text was set in 12-point Adobe Garamond, a typeface based on the 
sixteenth-century type designs of Claude Garamond, redrawn by Robert Slimbach in 1989. The book was printed and bound at Quebecor World. The Managing Editor was Manuela Soares. The 
production was supervised 
by Angela Biola and Mike 
Derevjanik.    