    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Harry Potter 
AND THE DEATHLY HALLOWS      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 also by j. k. rowling Harry Potter and the Sorcerers Stone Year One at Hogwarts Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets Year Two at Hogwarts Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban Year Three at Hogwarts Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire Year Four at Hogwarts Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix Year Five at Hogwarts Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince Year Six at Hogwarts Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Year Seven at Hogwarts Harry 
Potter AND THE DEATHLY HALLOWS   
 
 
 
   BY J. K. Rowling ILLUSTRATIONS  BY  Mary  GrandPr  
 
 
  ARTHUR A. LEVINE BOOKS AN IMPRINT OF SCHOLASTIC Press.   
 
  Text copyright  2007 by J. K. Rowling 
Illustrations by Mary GrandPr copyright  2007 by Warner Bros. 
HARRY POTTER & all related characters and elements are 
tm of and  WBEI. 
Harry Potter Publishing Rights  J. K. Rowling. 
All rights reserved. Published by Arthur A. Levine Books, an imprint of Scholastic Inc., 
Publishers since 1920. 
scholastic, the lantern logo, and associated logos are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Scholastic Inc. 
 The Libation Bearers by Aeschylus, from THE ORESTEIA
 by Aeschylus, translated by Robert Fagles, copyright  1966, 1967, 1975, 1977 by Robert Fagles. 
Used by permission of Viking Penguin, 
a division of Penguin Group (USA) Inc. 
More Fruits of Solitude, 
reprinted from William Penn, Fruits of Solitude, Vol I., Part 3, the Harvard Classics (New York: P.F. Collier & Son, 1909-14). 
 No part of this publication may be reproduced, or stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted 
in any form or by any means, electronic, mechani
cal, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, 
without written permission of the publisher. 
For information regarding permission, write to Scholastic Inc., Attention: Permissions Department, 557 Broadway, New York, NY 10012. 
 
 Library of Congress Control Number: 2007925449 
 ISBN-13: 978-0-545-02936-0 
ISBN-10: 0-545-02936-8 
 10  9  8  7  6  5  4  3  2  1      07  08  09  10  11 Printed in the U.S.A.       23 Reinforced library edition, July 2007 
 
 
 Mixed Sources Cert no. SCS-COC-00648 
 1996 FSC 

 We try to produce the most beautiful books 
possible, and we are also extremely concerned 
about the impact of our manufacturing process on the forests of the world and the 
environment as a whole. Accordingly, we made su
re that all of the paper we used contains 30% 
post-consumer recycled fiber, and that over 65%
 has been certified as coming from forests that are managed to insure the protection of the people and wildlife dependent upon them.   The dedication of this book Is split seven ways: To Neil, To Jessica, To David, To Kenzie, To Di, To Anne, And to you, If you have stuck with Harry 
until the very 
end. 
 Contents   vii  ONE The Dark Lord Ascending  1 TWO In Memoriam  13 THREE The Dursleys Departing  30 FOUR The Seven Potters  43 FIVE Fallen Warrior  63 SIX The Ghoul in Pajamas  86 SEVEN The Will of Albus Dumbledore  111 EIGHT The Wedding  137 NINE A Place to Hide  160   viii  TEN Kreachers Tale  176 ELEVEN The Bribe  201 TWELVE Magic is Might  223 THIRTEEN The Muggle-born Registration Commission  246 FOURTEEN The Thief  268 FIFTEEN The Goblins Revenge  284 SIXTEEN Godrics Hollow  311 SEVENTEEN Bathildas Secret  330 EIGHTEEN The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore  350 NINETEEN The Silver Doe  363   ix  TWENTY Xenophilius Lovegood  388 TWENTY-ONE The Tale of the Three Brothers  405 TWENTY-TWO The Deathly Hallows  424 TWENTY-Three Malfoy Manor  446 TWENTY-FOUR The Wandmaker  477 TWENTY-FIVE Shell Cottage  502 TWENTY-SIX Gringotts  519 TWENTY-SEVEN The Final Hiding Place  544 TWENTY-EIGHT The Missing Mirror  554 TWENTY-NINE The Lost Diadem  571   x  THIRTY The Sacking of Severus Snape  589 THIRTY-ONE The Battle of Hogwarts  608 THIRTY-TWO The Elder Wand  638 THIRTY-THREE The Princes Tale  659 THIRTY-FOUR The Forest Again  691 THIRTY-FIVE Kings Cross  705 THIRTY-SIX The Flaw in the Plan  724 EPILOGUE 753       Oh, the torment bred in the race,  the grinding scream of death  and the stroke that hits the vein,  the haemorrhage none can staunch, the grief, the curse no man can bear. 
 
But there is a cure in the house and not outside it, no, not from others but from them, their bloody strife. We sing to you, dark gods beneath the earth. 
 
Now hear, you blissful powers underground   answer the call, send help.  Bless the children, give them triumph now. 
 Aeschylus, The Libation Bearers  
 Death is but crossing the world, as friends do the seas; they live 

in one another still. For they mus
t needs be present, that love 
and live in that which is omniprese
nt. In this divine glass they 
see face to face; and their converse
 is free, as well as pure. This is 
the comfort of friends, that though they may be said to die, yet 

their friendship and society are, in
 the best sense, ever present, 
because immortal.   William Penn, More Fruits of Solitude     
 
 
 Harry Potter 
AND THE DEATHLY HALLOWS       C H A P T E R  O N E   1  THE DARK LORD 
ASCENDING 
 he two men appeared out of no
where, a few yards apart in 
the narrow, moonlit lane. For a second they stood quite still, 
wands directed at each others ches
ts; then, recognizing each other, 
they stowed their wands beneath their cloaks and started walking 
briskly in the same direction. 
News? asked the taller of the two. 
The best, replie
d Severus Snape. 
The lane was bordered on the left
 by wild, low-growing brambles, 
on the right by a high, neatly ma
nicured hedge. The mens long 
cloaks flapped around their ankles as they marched. 
Thought I might be late, said
 Yaxley, his blunt features slid-
ing in and out of sigh
t as the branches of overhanging trees broke 
the moonlight. It was a little tric
kier than I expected. But I hope 
he will be satisfied. You sound co
nfident that your reception will 
be good? Snape nodded, but did not elaborate. They turned right, into a 
T CHAPTER  ONE  2  wide driveway that led off the la
ne. The high hedge curved with 
them, running off into the distance
 beyond the pair of impressive 
wrought-iron gates barring the mens way. Neither of them broke 
step: In silence both raised their le
ft arms in a kind of salute and 
passed straight throug
h, as though the dark metal were smoke. 
The yew hedges muffled the sound 
of the mens footsteps. There 
was a rustle somewhere to their righ
t: Yaxley drew his wand again, 
pointing it over his companions 
head, but the source of the noise 
proved to be nothing more than a pure-white peacock, strutting 
majestically along the top of the hedge. He always did himself well, Lucius. 
Peacocks . . . Yaxley thrust 
his wand back under his cloak with a snort. 
A handsome manor house grew out of the darkness at the end of 
the straight drive, lights glinti
ng in the diamond-paned downstairs 
windows. Somewhere in the dark 
garden beyond the hedge a foun-
tain was playing. Gravel crackled
 beneath their feet as Snape and 
Yaxley sped toward the front door
, which swung inward at their 
approach, though nobody had visibly opened it. 
The hallway was large, dimly lit, and sumptuously decorated, 
with a magnificent carpet covering 
most of the stone floor. The eyes 
of the pale-faced portraits on th
e walls followed Snape and Yaxley 
as they strode past. The two m
en halted at a heavy wooden door 
leading into the next room, hesitate
d for the space of a heartbeat, 
then Snape turned the bronze handle. 
The drawing room was full of sil
ent people, sitting at a long and 
ornate table. The rooms usual fu
rniture had been pushed carelessly 
up against the walls. Illumination 
came from a roaring fire beneath 
a handsome marble mantelpiece su
rmounted by a gilded mirror. 
Snape and Yaxley lingered for a moment on the threshold. As their 
THE  DARK  LORD ASCENDING  3  eyes grew accustomed to the lack 
of light, they were drawn upward 
to the strangest feature of the scen
e: an apparently unconscious hu-
man figure hanging upside down over
 the table, revolving slowly as 
if suspended by an invisible rope
, and reflected in the mirror and 
in the bare, polished surface of th
e table below. None of the people 
seated underneath this singular si
ght was looking at it except for a 
pale young man sitting almost directly below it. He seemed unable 

to prevent himself from glancing
 upward every minute or so. 
Yaxley. Snape, said a high, clear voice from the head of the table. 
You are very nearly late. 
The speaker was seated directly in 
front of the fireplace, so that 
it was difficult, at first, for the new arrivals to make out more than 
his silhouette. As they drew nearer
, however, his face shone through 
the gloom, hairless, snakelike, with
 slits for nostrils and gleaming 
red eyes whose pupils were vertical
. He was so pale that he seemed 
to emit a pearly glow. 
Severus, here, said Voldemort, 
indicating the seat on his im-
mediate right. Yaxle
y  beside Dolohov. 
The two men took their allotted places. Most of the eyes around 
the table followed Snape, and it was to him that Voldemort spoke 

first. 
So? 
My Lord, the Order of the Phoenix intends to move Harry Pot-
ter from his current place of safety 
on Saturday next, at nightfall. 
The interest around the table sharpened palpably: Some stiffened, 
others fidgeted, all gazing
 at Snape and Voldemort. Saturday . . . at nightfall, repeated Voldemort. His red eyes fas-
tened upon Snapes black ones with such intensity that some of the 

watchers looked away, apparently fe
arful that they themselves would 
CHAPTER  ONE  4  be scorched by the fer
ocity of the gaze. Snap
e, however, looked 
calmly back into Voldemorts face 
and, after a moment or two, Vol-
demorts lipless mouth curved 
into something like a smile. 
Good. Very good. And this information comes  
 from the source we discussed, said Snape. 
My Lord. 
Yaxley had leaned forward to l
ook down the long table at Volde-
mort and Snape. All faces turned to him. 
My Lord, I have heard differently. 
Yaxley waited, but Voldemort di
d not speak, so he went on, 
Dawlish, the Auror, let slip that 
Potter will not be moved until the 
thirtieth, the night before
 the boy turns seventeen. 
Snape was smiling. 
My source told me that 
there are plans to lay a 
false trail; this must 
be it. No doubt a Confundus Char
m has been placed upon Dawlish. 
It would not be the first time; he is known to be susceptible. 
I assure you, my Lord, Dawlis
h seemed quite certain, said 
Yaxley. If he has been Confunded, naturally
 he is certain, said Snape. 
I assure 
you, Yaxley, the Auror Office will
 play no further part in 
the protection of Harry Potter. The Order believes that we have 
infiltrated the Ministry. The Orders got one thing right, then, eh? said a squat man sit-
ting a short distance from Yaxley; 
he gave a wheezy giggle that was 
echoed here and there along the table. 
Voldemort did not laugh. His ga
ze had wandered upward to 
the body revolving slowly overhead, and he seemed to be lost in 
thought. 
 THE  DARK  LORD ASCENDING  5  My Lord, Yaxley went on, Dawli
sh believes an entire party of 
Aurors will be used to
 transfer the boy  
Voldemort held up a large white 
hand, and Yaxley subsided at 
once, watching resentfully as Vo
ldemort turned back to Snape. 
Where are they going to hide the boy next? At the home of one of the Order, 
said Snape. The place, accord-
ing to the source, has been given 
every protection that the Order 
and Ministry together could provide.
 I think that there is little 
chance of taking him once he is 
there, my Lord, unless, of course, 
the Ministry has fallen before ne
xt Saturday, which might give us 
the opportunity to discover and 
undo enough of the enchantments 
to break through the rest. 
Well, Yaxley? Voldemort called
 down the table, the firelight 
glinting strangely in his red eyes. 
Will the Ministry have fallen by 
next Saturday? 
Once again, all heads turned. Yaxley squared his shoulders. 
My Lord, I have good news on th
at score. I have  with dif-
ficulty, and after great effort  su
ceeded in placing an Imperius 
Curse upon Pius Thicknesse. 
Many of those sitting around Yaxley looked impressed; his neigh-bor, Dolohov, a man wi
th a long, twisted face, clapped him on the 
back. It is a start, said Voldemort. B
ut Thicknesse is only one man. 
Scrimgeour must be surrounded by our people before I act. One 
failed attempt on the Ministers life will set me back a long way. 
Yes  my Lord, that is true 
 but you know, as Head of the 
Department of Magical Law Enforc
ement, Thicknesse has regular 
contact not only with the Minister 
himself, but also with the Heads  
 CHAPTER  ONE  6  of all the other Ministry departments. It will, I think, be easy now 
that we have such a high-ranking 
official under our control, to 
subjugate the others, and then they can all work together to bring 
Scrimgeour down. 
As long as our friend Thicknesse 
is not discovered before he has 
converted the rest, said Voldemort. At any rate, it remains 
unlikely that the Ministry will be
 mine before next Saturday. If we 
cannot touch the boy at his destinat
ion, then it must be done while 
he travels. We are at an advantage there, my Lord, said Yaxley, who seemed 
determined to receive some port
ion of approval. We now have 
several people planted within the Department of Magical Trans-
port. If Potter Apparates or uses the Floo Network, we shall know 
immediately. 
He will not do either, said Snap
e. The Order is eschewing any 
form of transport that is controlled or regulated by the Ministry; 
they mistrust everything to do with the place. 
All the better, said Voldemort.
 He will have to move in the 
open. Easier to take, by far. 
Again, Voldemort looked up at th
e slowly revolving body as he 
went on, I shall attend to the 
boy in person. There have been too 
many mistakes where Harry Potter
 is concerned. Some of them 
have been my own. That Potter lives is due more to my errors than 

to his triumphs. 
The company around the table watched Voldemort apprehen-
sively, each of them, by his or her 
expression, afraid that they might 
be blamed for Harry Potters contin
ued existence. Voldemort, how-
ever, seemed to be speaking more 
to himself than to any of them, 
still addressing the unco
nscious body above him. THE  DARK  LORD ASCENDING  7  I have been careless, and so ha
ve been thwarted by luck and 
chance, those wreckers of all but th
e best-laid plans. But I know bet-
ter now. I understand those things 
that I did not understand before. 
I must be the one to kill Harry Potter, and I shall be. 
At these words, seemingly in re
sponse to them, a sudden wail 
sounded, a terrible, drawn-out cry of misery and pain. Many of 
those at the table looked downwar
d, startled, for the sound had 
seemed to issue from below their feet. 
Wormtail, said Voldemort, with no change in his quiet, 
thoughtful tone, and without removing his eyes from the revolving 

body above, have I not spoken to you about keeping our prisoner 
quiet? 
Yes, m-my Lord, gasped a sm
all man halfway down the table, 
who had been sitting so
 low in his chair that
 it had appeared, at 
first glance, to be unoccupied. Now he scrambled from his seat and 

scurried from the room, leaving nothing behind him but a curious 
gleam of silver. 
As I was saying, continued Vo
ldemort, looking again at the 
tense faces of his followers, I un
derstand better no
w. I shall need, 
for instance, to borrow a wand from 
one of you before I go to kill 
Potter. The faces around him displayed no
thing but shock; he might have 
announced that he wanted to
 borrow one of their arms. No volunteers? said Voldemort. L
ets see . . . Lucius, I see no 
reason for you to have a wand anymore. 
Lucius Malfoy looked up. His sk
in appeared yellowish and waxy 
in the firelight, and his eyes 
were sunken and shadowed. When he 
spoke, his voice was hoarse. 
My Lord? 
CHAPTER  ONE  8  Your wand, Lucius. I 
require your wand. 
I . . . 
Malfoy glanced sideways at his 
wife. She was staring straight 
ahead, quite as pale as he was, her long blonde hair hanging down 
her back, but beneath the table her sl
im fingers closed briefly on his 
wrist. At her touch, Malfoy put his
 hand into his robes, withdrew 
a wand, and passed it along to Voldemort, who held it up in front 

of his red eyes, examining it closely. 
What is it? 
Elm, my Lord, 
whispered Malfoy. 
And the core? 
Dragon  dragon
 heartstring. Good, said Voldemort. He drew out his own wand and com-
pared the lengths. Lucius Malfoy
 made an involuntary movement; 
for a fraction of a second, it seem
ed he expected to receive Volde-
morts wand in exchange for hi
s own. The gesture was not missed 
by Voldemort, whose eyes
 widened maliciously. Give you my wand, Lucius? 
My wand? 
Some of the throng sniggered. 
I have given you your liberty,
 Lucius, is that not enough for 
you? But I have noticed that you 
and your family seem less than 
happy of late. . . . What is it ab
out my presence in your home that 
displeases you, Lucius? Nothing  nothing, my Lord! 
Such 
lies, Lucius . . . 
The soft voice seemed to hiss on
 even after the cruel mouth had 
stopped moving. One or two of the 
wizards barely repressed a shud-
der as the hissing grew louder; 
something heavy could be heard 
sliding across the floor beneath the table. 
THE  DARK  LORD ASCENDING  9  The huge snake emerged to climb 
slowly up Voldemorts chair. 
It rose, seemingly endlessly, and 
came to rest across Voldemorts 
shoulders: its neck the thickness of 
a mans thigh; its eyes, with their 
vertical slits for pupils, unblinking. Voldemort stroked the creature 
absently with long thin fingers, still looking at Lucius Malfoy. 
Why do the Malfoys look so unha
ppy with their lot? Is my re-
turn, my rise to power, not the very thing they professed to desire 

for so many years? Of course, my Lord, said Lucius
 Malfoy. His hand shook as he 
wiped sweat from his upper lip.
 We did desire
 it  we do. To Malfoys left, his wife made an odd, stiff nod, her eyes averted 
from Voldemort and the snake. To his right, his son, Draco, who 
had been gazing up at the inert b
ody overhead, glanced quickly at 
Voldemort and away again, terrified to make eye contact. 
My Lord, said a dark woman ha
lfway down the table, her voice 
constricted with emotion, it is an honor to have you here, in our 
familys house. There can 
be no higher pleasure. 
She sat beside her sister, as unlike 
her in looks, with her dark hair 
and heavily lidded eyes, as she was in bearing and demeanor; where 
Narcissa sat rigid and impassive, Be
llatrix leaned toward Voldemort, 
for mere words could 
not demonstrate her longing for closeness. 
No higher pleasure, repeated Vo
ldemort, his head tilted a little 
to one side as he considered Be
llatrix. That means a great deal, 
Bellatrix, from you. 
Her face flooded with color; he
r eyes welled with tears of 
delight. My Lord knows I speak nothing but the truth! 
No higher pleasure . . . even 
compared with the happy event 
that, I hear, has taken place in your family this week? 
CHAPTER  ONE  10  She stared at him, her lips
 parted, evidently confused. 
I dont know what you mean, my Lord. 

Im talking about your niece, Bellatrix. And yours, Lucius and 
Narcissa. She has just married the werewolf, Remus Lupin. You 
must be so proud. 
There was an eruption of jeering 
laughter from around the table. 
Many leaned forward to exchange gleeful looks; a few thumped 

the table with their fists. The grea
t snake, disliking the disturbance, 
opened its mouth wide and hissed an
grily, but the Death Eaters did 
not hear it, so jubilant were they
 at Bellatrix and the Malfoys hu-
miliation. Bellatrixs face, so rece
ntly flushed with happiness, had 
turned an ugly, blotchy red. 
She is no niece of ours, my Lord, she cried over the outpouring 
of mirth. We  Narcissa and I  ha
ve never set eyes on our sister 
since she married the Mu
dblood. This brat ha
s nothing to do with 
either of us, nor an
y beast she marries. 
What say you, Draco? asked Vo
ldemort, and though his voice 
was quiet, it carried clearly throug
h the catcalls and jeers. Will you 
babysit the cubs? 
The hilarity mounted; Draco Malfoy looked in terror at his father, 
who was staring down into his own 
lap, then caught his mothers 
eye. She shook her head almost 
imperceptibly, then resumed her 
own deadpan stare at the opposite wall. 
Enough, said Voldemort, stroking the angry snake. 
Enough. And the laughter died at once. 
Many of our oldest family trees become a little diseased over 
time, he said as Bellatrix gazed at him, breathless and imploring.  

 THE  DARK  LORD ASCENDING  11  You must prune yours, must you no
t, to keep it healthy? Cut away 
those parts that threaten the health of the rest. 
Yes, my Lord, whispered Bellatrix
, and her eyes swam with tears 
of gratitude again. At the first chance! 
You shall have it, said Voldemort. And in your family, so in 
the world . . . we shall cut away the canker that infects us until only 
those of the true blood remain. . . . 
Voldemort raised Lucius Malfoys 
wand, pointed it directly at the 
slowly revolving figure suspended ov
er the table, and gave it a tiny 
flick. The figure came to life wi
th a groan and began to struggle 
against invisible bonds. 
Do you recognize our guest, Severus? asked Voldemort. 
Snape raised his eyes to the up
side-down face. All of the Death 
Eaters were looking up at the capt
ive now, as though they had been 
given permission to show curiosity. As she revolved to face the fire-

light, the woman said in a cracked and terrified voice, Severus! 
Help me! 
Ah, yes, said Snape as the pris
oner turned slowly away again. 
And you, Draco? asked Voldemor
t, stroking the snakes snout 
with his wand-free hand. Draco sh
ook his head jerkily. Now that 
the woman had woken, he seemed un
able to look at her anymore. 
But you would not have taken her 
classes, said Voldemort. For 
those of you who do not know, we ar
e joined here tonight by Charity 
Burbage who, until recently, taught
 at Hogwarts School of Witch-
craft and Wizardry. 
There were small noises of comprehension around the table. A 
broad, hunched woman with
 pointed teeth cackled. 
Yes . . . Professor Burbage taug
ht the children of witches and  
 CHAPTER  ONE  12  wizards all about Muggles
 . . . how they are no
t so different from 
us . . . 
One of the Death Eaters spat on
 the floor. Charity Burbage re-
volved to face Snape again. 
Severus . . . please . . . please . . . Silence, said Voldemort, with an
other twitch of Malfoys wand, 
and Charity fell silent as if gagg
ed. Not content with corrupting 
and polluting the minds of Wizarding children, last week Professor 
Burbage wrote an impassioned 
defense of Mudbloods in the 
Daily 
Prophet. Wizards, she says, must accept these thieves of their knowl-
edge and magic. The dwindling of the purebloods is, says Professor 
Burbage, a most desirable circumst
ance. . . . She would have us all 
mate with Muggles . . . or, no doubt, werewolves. . . . 
Nobody laughed this time: There was no mistaking the anger and 
contempt in Voldemorts voice. For the third time, Charity Burbage 

revolved to face Snape. Tears were pouring from her eyes into her 
hair. Snape looked back at her, quite impassive, as she turned slowly 
away from him again. 
Avada Kedavra. The flash of green light illumina
ted every corner of the room. 
Charity fell, with a resounding crash, onto the table below, which 
trembled and creaked. Several of the Death Eaters leapt back in their 
chairs. Draco fell out of his onto the floor. Dinner, Nagini, said Voldem
ort softly, and the great snake 
swayed and slithered from his shoulders onto the polished wood. C H A P T E R  T W O   13  IN MEMORIAM 
   arry was bleeding. Clutching hi
s right hand in his left 
and swearing under his breath, he shouldered open his 
bedroom door. There was a crunch of breaking china: He had trod-

den on a cup of cold tea that ha
d been sitting on the floor outside 
his bedroom door. What the  ? 
He looked around; the landing of number four, Privet Drive, was 
deserted. Possibly the cup of tea was 
Dudleys idea of
 a clever booby 
trap. Keeping his bleeding hand 
elevated, Harry scraped the frag-ments of cup together with the ot
her hand and threw them into the 
already crammed bin just visible 
inside his bedroom door. Then he 
tramped across to the bathroom to run his finger under the tap. 
It was stupid, pointless, irritating beyond belief that he still had 
four days left of being unable to 
perform magic . . . but he had to ad-
mit to himself that this jagged cu
t in his finger would have defeated 
him. He had never learned how to repair wounds, and now he came 
H CHAPTER  TWO  14  to think of it  particularly in light of his immediate plans  this 
seemed a serious flaw in his magi
cal education. Making a mental 
note to ask Hermione how it was do
ne, he used a large wad of toilet 
paper to mop up as much of the tea as he could, before returning to 
his bedroom and slamming the door behind him. Harry had spent the morning comp
letely emptying his school 
trunk for the first time since he ha
d packed it six years ago. At the 
start of the intervening school ye
ars, he had merely skimmed off 
the topmost three quarters of the contents and replaced or updated 
them, leaving a layer of general de
bris at the bottom  old quills, 
desiccated beetle eyes, single socks 
that no longer fit. Minutes previ-
ously, Harry had plunged his hand 
into this mulch, experienced a 
stabbing pain in the fourth finger
 of his right hand, and withdrawn 
it to see a lot of blood. He now proceeded a little more ca
utiously. Kneeling down beside 
the trunk again, he groped around 
in the bottom and, after retriev-
ing an old badge that fl
ickered feebly between 
SUPPORT CEDRIC 
DIGGORY
 and 
POTTER STINKS, a cracked and worn-out Sneak-
oscope, and a gold locket inside 
which a note signed R.A.B. had 
been hidden, he finally discover
ed the sharp edge
 that had done 
the damage. He recognized it at 
once. It was a two-inch-long frag-
ment of the enchanted mirror that 
his dead godfather, Sirius, had 
given him. Harry laid it aside an
d felt cautiously around the trunk 
for the rest, but nothing more remained of his godfathers last gift 
except powdered glass, which clun
g to the deepest layer of debris 
like glittering grit. 
Harry sat up and examined the 
jagged piece on
 which he had 
cut himself, seeing nothing but his
 own bright green eye reflected 
back at him. Then he pl
aced the fragment on 
top of that mornings 
IN  MEMORIAM  15  Daily Prophet,
 which lay unread on the be
d, and attempted to stem 
the sudden upsurge of bitter memori
es, the stabs of regret and of 
longing the discovery of the brok
en mirror had occasioned, by at-
tacking the rest of the rubbish in the trunk. It took another hour to empty it
 completely, throw away the use-
less items, and sort the remainder 
in piles according to whether or 
not he would need them from no
w on. His school and Quidditch 
robes, cauldron, parchment, quills, 
and most of his textbooks were 
piled in a corner, to be left behind. He wondered what his aunt and 
uncle would do with them; burn them
 in the dead of night, proba-
bly, as if they were the evidence of some dreadful crime. His Muggle 
clothing, Invisibility Cloak, poti
on-making kit, certain books, the 
photograph album Hagrid had once 
given him, a stack of letters, and 
his wand had been repacked into an
 old rucksack. In a front pocket 
were the Marauders Map and the locket with the note signed R.A.B. 

inside it. The locket was accorded 
this place of honor not because it 
was valuable  in all usual senses
 it was worthles
s  but because of what it had cost to attain it. 
This left a sizable stack of newsp
apers sitting on his desk beside 
his snowy owl, Hedwig: 
one for each of the 
days Harry had spent 
at Privet Drive this summer. 
He got up off the floor, stretche
d, and moved across to his desk. 
Hedwig made no movement as he
 began to flick through the news-
papers, throwing them on
to the rubbish pile o
ne by one. The owl was 
asleep, or else faking; she was angry with Harry about the limited 
amount of time she was allowed out of her cage at the moment. 
As he neared the bottom of the 
pile of newspapers, Harry slowed 
down, searching for one particular 
issue that he knew had arrived 
shortly after he had returned to Privet Drive for the summer; he 
CHAPTER  TWO  16  remembered that there had been a 
small mention on the front about the resignation of Charity Burbage,
 the Muggle Studies teacher at 
Hogwarts. At last he found it. Turnin
g to page ten, he sank into his 
desk chair and reread the article he had been looking for. 
 ALBUS DUMBLEDORE REMEMBERED 
by Elphias Doge I met Albus Dumbledore at the age of 

eleven, on our first day at Hogwarts. 

Our mutual attraction was undoubt-
edly due to the fact that we both felt 
ourselves to be outsiders. I had con-
tracted dragon pox shortly before arriving at school, 
and while I was no longer contagious, my pock-

marked visage and greenish hue did not encour-
age many to approach me. For his part, Albus had 
arrived at Hogwarts under the burden of unwanted 
notoriety. Scarcely a year previously, his father, 
Percival, had been convicte
d of a savage and well-
publicized attack upon three young Muggles. 
Albus never attempted to deny that his father 
(who was to die in Azkaban) had committed this 

crime; on the contrary, when I plucked up courage 
to ask him, he assured me that he knew his father to 
be guilty. Beyond that, Dumbledore refused to speak 
of the sad business, though many attempted to make 
him do so. Some, indeed, were disposed to praise 

his fathers action and assumed that Albus too was a 
Muggle-hater. They could not have been more mis-
IN  MEMORIAM  17  taken: As anybody who knew Albus would attest, he 
never revealed the remotest anti-Muggle tendency. 

Indeed, his determined su
pport for Muggle rights 
gained him many enemies in subsequent years. 
In a matter of months, however, Albuss own fame 
had begun to eclipse that of his father. By the end of his first year he would never again be known as the 

son of a Muggle-hater, but 
as nothing more or less 
than the most brilliant student ever seen at the school. 
Those of us who were privil
eged to be his friends ben-
efited from his example, not to mention his help and 
encouragement, with which he was always generous. 
He confessed to me in la
ter life that he knew even 
then that his greatest pl
easure lay in teaching. 
He not only won every prize 
of note that the school offered, he was soon in regular correspondence with 
the most notable magical names of the day, including 
Nicolas Flamel, the celebrat
ed alchemist; Bathilda 
Bagshot, the noted histor
ian; and Adalbert Waf-
fling, the magical theoretician. Several of his papers 

found their way into learned publications such as 
Transfiguration Today, Challenges in Charming,
 and 
The Practical Potioneer.
 Dumbledores future career 
seemed likely to be meteoric, and the only question 
that remained was when he
 would become Minister 
of Magic. Though it was oft
en predicted in later years 
that he was on the point of taking the job, however, 
he never had Ministerial ambitions. 
Three years after we had started at Hogwarts, 
CHAPTER  TWO  18  Albuss brother, Aberforth,
 arrived at school. They 
were not alike; Aberforth was never bookish and, 

unlike Albus, preferred to settle arguments by duel-
ing rather than through reasoned discussion. How-
ever, it is quite wrong to suggest, as some have, that 
the brothers were not fr
iends. They rubbed along 
as comfortably as two such
 different boys could do. 
In fairness to Aberforth, 
it must be admitted that 
living in Albuss shadow 
cannot have been an alto-
gether comfortable experi
ence. Being continually 
outshone was an occupation
al hazard of being his 
friend and cannot have been any more pleasurable 
as a brother. 
When Albus and I left Hogwarts we intended to 
take the then-traditional tour of the world together, 

visiting and observing fore
ign wizards, before pur-
suing our separate careers.
 However, tragedy inter-
vened. On the very eve of our trip, Albuss mother, 
Kendra, died, leaving Albus the head, and sole 
breadwinner, of the family. I postponed my depar-

ture long enough to pay my respects at Kendras 
funeral, then left for what was now to be a solitary 
journey. With a younger brother and sister to care 

for, and little gold left to them, there could no longer 
be any question of Albus accompanying me. 
That was the period of our lives when we had least 
contact. I wrote to Albus, describing, perhaps insen-
sitively, the wonders of my journey, from narrow es-

capes from chimaeras in Greece to the experiments 
IN  MEMORIAM  19  of the Egyptian alchemists. His letters told me little 
of his day-to-day life, which I guessed to be frustrat-

ingly dull for such a brilliant wizard. Immersed in 
my own experiences, it was with horror that I heard, 
toward the end of my years
 travels, that yet another 
tragedy had struck the Du
mbledores: the death of 
his sister, Ariana. 
Though Ariana had been in poor health for a long 
time, the blow, coming so soon
 after the loss of their 
mother, had a profound effec
t on both of her broth-
ers. All those closest to Albus  and I count my-
self one of that lucky numb
er  agree that Arianas 
death, and Albuss feeling of
 personal responsibility 
for it (though, of course, he
 was guiltless), left their 
mark upon him forevermore. 
I returned home to find a young man who had 
experienced a much older persons suffering. Albus 
was more reserved than before, and much less light-
hearted. To add to his mi
sery, the loss of Ariana 
had led, not to a rene
wed closeness between Albus 
and Aberforth, but to an estrangement. (In time 
this would lift  in later 
years they reestablished, 
if not a close relationship, then certainly a cordial 

one.) However, he rarely sp
oke of his parents or of 
Ariana from then on, and his friends learned not to 
mention them. 
Other quills will describe the triumphs of the fol-
lowing years. Dumbledores innumerable contribu-

tions to the store of Wizarding knowledge, including 
CHAPTER  TWO  20  his discovery of the twelve uses of dragons blood, 
will benefit generations to 
come, as will the wisdom 
he displayed in the many judgments he made while 
Chief Warlock of the Wizeng
amot. They say, still, 
that no Wizarding duel ever matched that between 
Dumbledore and Grindelwald in 1945. Those who 
witnessed it have written of the terror and the awe 

they felt as they watched these two extraordinary 
wizards do battle. Dumbledores triumph, and its 
consequences for the Wiza
rding world, are consid-
ered a turning point in ma
gical history to match the 
introduction of the International Statute of Secrecy 
or the downfall of He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named. 
Albus Dumbledore was never proud or vain; he 
could find something to 
value in anyone, however 
apparently insignificant or wretched, and I believe 
that his early losses endowed him with great human-
ity and sympathy. I shall miss his friendship more 
than I can say, but my loss is as nothing compared to 
the Wizarding worlds. That
 he was the most inspir-
ing and the best loved of all Hogwarts headmasters 
cannot be in question. He died as he lived: working 
always for the greater good an
d, to his last hour, as 
willing to stretch out a ha
nd to a small boy with 
dragon pox as he was on the day that I met him. 
 Harry finished reading but contin
ued to gaze at the picture ac-
companying the obituary. Dumbledo
re was wearing his familiar,  
 IN  MEMORIAM  21  kindly smile, but as he peered ov
er the top of his half-moon spec-
tacles, he gave the impression, even in newsprint, of X-raying Harry, 

whose sadness mingled with 
a sense of humiliation. 
He had thought he knew Dumbledore quite well, but ever since 
reading this obituary he had been forced to recognize that he had 
barely known him at all. Never once had he imagined Dumbledores 
childhood or youth; it was as thou
gh he had sprung into being as 
Harry had known him, venerable and 
silver-haired and old. The idea 
of a teenage Dumbledore was simply
 odd, like trying to imagine a 
stupid Hermione or a frie
ndly Blast-Ended Skrewt. He had never thought to ask 
Dumbledore about his past. No 
doubt it would have felt strange, 
impertinent even, bu
t after all, it 
had been common knowledge that 
Dumbledore had taken part in 
that legendary duel with Grindelwald, and Harry had not thought 
to ask Dumbledore what that had 
been like, nor about any of his 
other famous achievements. No, th
ey had always discussed Harry, 
Harrys past, Harrys future, Harrys plans . . . and it seemed to 
Harry now, despite the 
fact that his future 
was so dangerous and 
so uncertain, that he had missed 
irreplaceable opportunities when 
he had failed to ask Dumbledore more about himself, even though 

the only personal question he ha
d ever asked his headmaster was 
also the only one he suspected th
at Dumbledore had not answered 
honestly: 
What do you see when you look in the mirror
? I? I see myself holding a pair
 of thick, woolen socks.
 After several minutes thought, Harry tore the obituary out of the Prophet, folded it carefully, and tucked 
it inside the first volume of 
Practical Defensive Magic and Its Use Against the Dark Arts.
 Then he   CHAPTER  TWO  22  threw the rest of the newspaper onto
 the rubbish pile and turned to 
face the room. It was much tidier. 
The only things l
eft out of place 
were todays 
Daily Prophet, 
still lying on the bed, and on top of it, 
the piece of broken mirror. 
Harry moved across the room, slid the mirror fragment off todays 
Prophet, and unfolded the newspaper. He had merely glanced at the 
headline when he had taken the roll
ed-up paper from the delivery 
owl early that morning and thrown it 
aside, after noting that it said 
nothing about Voldemort. Harry wa
s sure that th
e Ministry was 
leaning on the 
Prophet to suppress news about Voldemort. It was 
only now, therefore, that he saw what he had missed. 
Across the bottom half of the front page a smaller headline was 
set over a picture of Dumbledore striding along looking harried: 
 DUMBLEDORE  THE TRUTH AT LAST? Coming next week, the shoc
king story of the flawed 
genius considered by many to be the greatest wizard 
of his generation. Stripping away the popular image 
of serene, silver-bearded wi
sdom, Rita Skeeter reveals 
the disturbed childhood, the 
lawless youth, the life-
long feuds, and the guilty secrets that Dumbledore 

carried to his grave. WHY was the man tipped to be 
Minister of Magic content 
to remain a mere head-
master? WHAT was the real purpose of the secret 

organization known as the Order of the Phoenix? 
HOW did Dumbledore really meet his end? 
The answers to these and many more questions 
are explored in the explosive new biography, 
The 
Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore,
 by Rita Skeeter, 
IN  MEMORIAM  23  exclusively interviewed by Betty Braithwaite, page 
13, inside.  Harry ripped open the paper and found page thirteen. The article 
was topped with a picture showing another familiar face: a woman 
wearing jeweled glasses with elaborately curled blonde hair, her teeth 
bared in what was clearly supposed 
to be a winning 
smile, wiggling 
her fingers up at him. Doing his best
 to ignore this nauseating im-
age, Harry read on. 
 In person, Rita Skeeter is much warmer and 
softer than her famously ferocious quill-portraits 
might suggest. Greeting me in the hallway of her 
cozy home, she leads me st
raight into the kitchen 
for a cup of tea, a slice of pound cake and, it goes 

without saying, a steaming 
vat of freshest gossip. 
Well, of course, Dumbledore is a biographers 
dream, says Skeeter. Such 
a long, full life. Im sure 
my book will be the fi
rst of very, very many. 
Skeeter was certainly qu
ick off the mark. Her 
nine-hundred-page book wa
s completed a mere four 
weeks after Dumbledores mysterious death in June. 
I ask her how she managed this superfast feat. 
Oh, when youve been a journalist as long as 
I have, working to a dead
line is second nature. I 
knew that the Wizarding world was clamoring for 
the full story and I wanted 
to be the first to meet 
that need. 
I mention the recent, widely publicized remarks 
CHAPTER  TWO  24  of Elphias Doge, Special Advisor to the Wizen-
gamot and longstanding friend of Albus Dumble-

dores, that Skeeters book
 contains less fact than a 
Chocolate Frog card. 
Skeeter throws back her head and laughs. 
Darling Dodgy! I remember interviewing him 
a few years back about merpeople rights, bless him. 

Completely gaga, seemed to
 think we were sitting 
at the bottom of Lake Wi
ndermere, kept telling me 
to watch out for trout. 
And yet Elphias Doges accusations of inaccuracy 
have been echoed in many 
places. Does Skeeter re-
ally feel that four short weeks have been enough to 
gain a full picture of Dumbledores long and ex-
traordinary life? 
Oh, my dear, beams Skeeter, rapping me affec-
tionately across the knuckles, you know as well as 
I do how much information 
can be generated by a 
fat bag of Galleons, a refusa
l to hear the word no, 
and a nice sharp Quick-Quotes Quill! People were 

queuing to dish the dirt on Dumbledore anyway. 
Not everyone thought he was so wonderful, you 
know  he trod on an awful lot of important toes. 

But old Dodgy Doge can get off his high hippogriff, 
because Ive had access to a source most journal-
ists would swap their wands for, one who has never 
spoken in public before and who was close to Dum-
bledore during the most turbulent and disturbing 

phase of his youth. 
IN  MEMORIAM  25  The advance publicity for Skeeters biography has 
certainly suggested that ther
e will be shocks in store 
for those who believe Dumbledore to have led a 
blameless life. What were the biggest surprises she 
uncovered, I ask? 
Now, come off it, Betty, Im not giving away all 
the highlights before anybodys bought the book! 

laughs Skeeter. But I can promise that anybody 
who still thinks Dumbledor
e was white as his beard 
is in for a rude awakening! Lets just say that nobody 

hearing him rage agains
t You-Know-Who would 
have dreamed that he dabbled in the Dark Arts 
himself in his youth! An
d for a wizard who spent 
his later years pleading for 
tolerance, he wasnt ex-
actly broad-minded when he was younger! Yes, Al-

bus Dumbledore had an extremely murky past, not 
to mention that very fishy family, which he worked 
so hard to keep hushed up. 
I ask whether Skeeter is referring to Dumbledores 
brother, Aberforth, whose conviction by the Wizen-

gamot for misuse of magic caused a minor scandal 
fifteen years ago. 
Oh, Aberforth is just the tip of the dung heap, 
laughs Skeeter. No, no, Im talking about much 
worse than a brother with
 a fondness for fiddling 
about with goats, worse even than the Muggle-
maiming father  Dumbledore couldnt keep either 
of them quiet anyway, they were both charged by 

the Wizengamot. No, its the mother and the sister 
CHAPTER  TWO  26  that intrigued me, and a little digging uncovered a 
positive nest of nastiness  but, as I say, youll have 

to wait for chapters nine to
 twelve for full details. All 
I can say now is, its no wonder Dumbledore never 
talked about how his nose got broken. Family skeletons notwithstanding, does Skeeter 
deny the brilliance that led to Dumbledores many 

magical discoveries? 
He had brains, she concedes, although many 
now question whether he could really take full credit 

for all of his supposed achi
evements. As I reveal in 
chapter sixteen, Ivor Dill
onsby claims he had al-
ready discovered eight uses of dragons blood when 
Dumbledore borrowed his papers. 
But the importance of some of Dumbledores 
achievements cannot, I vent
ure, be denied. What of 
his famous defeat 
of Grindelwald? 
Oh, now, Im glad you 
mentioned Grindelwald, 
says Skeeter with a tantalizin
g smile. Im afraid those 
who go dewy-eyed over Dumbledores spectacular 

victory must brace themselves for a bombshell  or 
perhaps a Dungbomb. Very dirty business indeed. 
All Ill say is, dont be so sure that there really was 

the spectacular duel of legend. After theyve read my 
book, people may be forced
 to conclude that Grin-
delwald simply conjured a white handkerchief from 
the end of his wand 
and came quietly! 
Skeeter refuses to give any more away on this 
intriguing subject, so we turn instead to the rela-
IN  MEMORIAM  27  tionship that will undoubtedly fascinate her readers 
more than any other. 
Oh yes, says Skeeter, noddi
ng briskly, I devote 
an entire chapter to the whole Potter-Dumbledore 
relationship. Its been call
ed unhealthy, even sinis-
ter. Again, your readers 
will have to buy my book 
for the whole story, but th
ere is no question that 
Dumbledore took an unnatural interest in Potter 
from the word go. Whether 
that was really in the 
boys best interests  well, well see. Its certainly 

an open secret that Potter has had a most troubled 
adolescence. 
I ask whether Skeeter is still in touch with Harry 
Potter, whom she so famously interviewed last year: 
a breakthrough piece in which Potter spoke exclu-

sively of his conviction that You-Know-Who had 
returned. Oh, yes, weve developed a close bond, says 
Skeeter. Poor Potter has few real friends, and we 
met at one of the most te
sting moments of his life 
 the Triwizard Tournament. I am probably one 
of the only people alive wh
o can say that they know 
the real Harry Potter. 
Which leads us neatly to the many rumors still 
circulating about Dumbledores final hours. Does 
Skeeter believe that Potter was there when Dumble-
dore died? 
Well, I dont want to sa
y too much  its all in 
the book  but eyewitnesses inside Hogwarts castle 
CHAPTER  TWO  28  saw Potter running away from the scene moments 
after Dumbledore fell, jumped, or was pushed. Pot-

ter later gave evidence against Severus Snape, a man 
against whom he has a notorious grudge. Is every-
thing as it seems? That is for the Wizarding com-
munity to decide  once theyve read my book. 
On that intriguing note, I take my leave. There 
can be no doubt that Skeet
er has quilled an instant 
bestseller. Dumbledores legions of admirers, mean-
while, may well be trembling at what is soon to 

emerge about their hero. 
 Harry reached the bottom of the ar
ticle, but continued to stare 
blankly at the page. Revulsion and 
fury rose in him like vomit; he 
balled up the newspaper and threw it, 
with all his force, at the wall, 
where it joined the rest of the ru
bbish heaped around his overflow-
ing bin. 
He began to stride blindly around the room, opening empty draw-
ers and picking up books only to 
replace them on the same piles, 
barely conscious of what he wa
s doing, as random
 phrases from 
Ritas article echoed in his head: 
An entire chapter to the whole Potter-
Dumbledore relationship . . . Its been 
called unhealthy, ev
en sinister. . . . 
He dabbled in the Dark Arts himself in his youth . . . Ive had access to 

a source most journalists would swap their wands for . . .
 Lies! Harry bellowed, and through the window he saw the 
next-door neighbor, who had paused
 to restart his lawn mower, 
look up nervously. 
Harry sat down hard on the bed. 
The broken bit of mirror danced 
away from him; he picked it up an
d turned it over in his fingers, 
IN  MEMORIAM  29  thinking, thinking of Dumbledore and the lies with which Rita 
Skeeter was defaming him. . . . A flash of brightest blue. Harry fr
oze, his cut finger slipping on 
the jagged edge of the mirror again.
 He had imagined it, he must 
have done. He glanced over his sh
oulder, but the wall was a sickly 
peach color of Aunt Petunias ch
oosing: There was nothing blue 
there for the mirror to reflect. He
 peered into the mirror fragment 
again, and saw nothing but his ow
n bright green eye looking back 
at him. He had imagined it, th
ere was no other explan
ation; imagined it, 
because he had been thinking of 
his dead headmaster. If anything 
was certain, it was th
at the bright blue ey
es of Albus Dumbledore 
would never pierce him again. C H A P T E R  T H R E E   30  THE DURSLEYS 
DEPARTING 
 he sound of the front door slam
ming echoed up the stairs 
and a voice yelled, Oi! You! 
Sixteen years of being addressed th
us left Harry in no doubt whom 
his uncle was calling; nevertheless,
 he did not immediately respond. 
He was still gazing at the mirror frag
ment in which, for a split second, 
he had thought he saw Dumbledores 
eye. It was not until his uncle 
bellowed, BOY! that Harry got sl
owly to his feet and headed for 
the bedroom door, pausing to add th
e piece of broken mirror to the 
rucksack filled with things 
he would be taking with him. You took your time! roared
 Vernon Dursley when Harry ap-
peared at the top of the stairs. 
Get down here, I want a word! 
Harry strolled downstairs, his hand
s deep in his jeans pockets. 
When he reached the living room he found all three Dursleys. They 
were dressed for traveling: Uncle 
Vernon in a fawn zip-up jacket, 
Aunt Petunia in a neat salmon-c
olored coat, and Dudley, Harrys 
large, blond, muscular cous
in, in his leather jacket. 
T THE  DURSLEYS DEPARTING  31  Yes? asked Harry. 
Sit down! said Uncle Vernon. Harry raised his eyebrows. 
Please! added Uncle Vernon, wincin
g slightly as though the word 
was sharp in his throat. 
Harry sat. He thought he knew
 what was comi
ng. His uncle 
began to pace up and down, Aunt
 Petunia and Dudley following 
his movements with anxious expressi
ons. Finally, his large purple 
face crumpled with concentration, Uncle Vernon stopped in front 
of Harry and spoke. Ive changed my mind, he said. 

What a surprise, said Harry. 
Dont you take that tone  be
gan Aunt Petunia in a shrill 
voice, but Vernon Du
rsley waved her down. 
Its all a lot of claptrap, said Uncle Vernon, glaring at Harry 
with piggy little eyes. Ive decided 
I dont believe a word of it. Were 
staying put, were not going anywhere. 
Harry looked up at his uncle and felt a mixture of exasperation 
and amusement. Vernon Dursley ha
d been changing his mind every 
twenty-four hours for the past fo
ur weeks, packing and unpacking 
and repacking the car wi
th every change of he
art. Harrys favorite 
moment had been the one when Uncle Vernon, unaware that Dud-
ley had added his dumbbells to his 
case since the last time it had 
been unpacked, had attempted to ho
ist it back into the boot and 
collapsed with roars of 
pain and much swearing. According to you, Vernon Dursle
y said now, resuming his pac-
ing up and down the living room, we  Petunia, Dudley, and I 
 are in danger. From  from  
Some of my lot, right, said Harry. 

Well, I dont believe 
it, repeated Uncle Vernon, coming to a halt 
CHAPTER  THREE  32  in front of Harry again. I was awak
e half the night thinking it all 
over, and I believe its a 
plot to get the house. 
The house? repeated Harry. What house? 
This house! shrieked Uncle Vernon, the vein in his forehead 
starting to pulse. 
Our house! House prices are skyrocketing around 
here! You want us out of the way 
and then youre going to do a bit 
of hocus-pocus and before we know
 it the deeds will be in your 
name and  
Are you out of your mind? demanded Harry. A plot to get this 
house? Are you actually as
 stupid as you look? 
Dont you dare  ! squealed Au
nt Petunia, but again, Vernon 
waved her down: Slights on his pers
onal appearance were, it seemed, 
as nothing to the danger he had spotted. Just in case youve forgotten,
 said Harry, Ive already got a 
house, my godfather left me one.
 So why would I want this one? 
All the happy memories? 
There was silence. Harry thought 
he had rather impressed his 
uncle with this argument. You claim, said Uncle Vernon, st
arting to pace yet again, that 
this Lord Thing   Voldemort, said Harry impatiently, and weve been through 
this about a hundred times already. 
This isnt a claim, its fact, Dum-
bledore told you last year, and Kingsley and Mr. Weasley  Vernon Dursley hunched his shoulders angrily, and Harry guessed 
that his uncle was attempting to wa
rd off recollections of the unan-
nounced visit, a few days into Harrys summer holidays, of two fully 
grown wizards. The arrival on the 
doorstep of Kingsley Shacklebolt 
and Arthur Weasley had come as a 
most unpleasant shock to the  
 THE  DURSLEYS DEPARTING  33  Dursleys. Harry had to admit, howe
ver, that as Mr. Weasley had 
once demolished half of the living
 room, his reappearance could not 
have been expected to
 delight Uncle Vernon. 
 Kingsley and Mr. Weasley ex
plained it all as well, Harry 
pressed on remorselessly. Once I
m seventeen, the protective charm 
that keeps me safe will break, an
d that exposes you as well as me. 
The Order is sure Voldemort will ta
rget you, whether to torture you 
to try and find out where I am, or because he thinks by holding you 
hostage Id come and try to rescue you. 
Uncle Vernons and Harrys eyes met. Harry was sure that in that 
instant they were both wonderin
g the same thing. Then Uncle Ver-
non walked on and Harry resumed, Youve got to go into hiding 
and the Order wants to help. Youre being offered serious protection, 
the best there is. Uncle Vernon said nothing, but 
continued to pace up and down. 
Outside the sun hung low over 
the privet hedges. The next-door 
neighbors lawn mower stalled again. 
I thought there was a Ministry of Magic? asked Vernon Durs-
ley abruptly. 
There is, said Harry, surprised. 

Well, then, why cant they protec
t us? It seems to me that, as 
innocent victims, guilty of nothing more than harboring a marked 
man, we ought to qualify for government protection! 
Harry laughed; he could not help 
himself. It was so
 very typical 
of his uncle to put his hopes in 
the establishment, 
even within this 
world that he despised and mistrusted. 
You heard what Mr. Weasley and 
Kingsley said, Harry replied. 
We think the Ministry 
has been infiltrated. 
 CHAPTER  THREE  34  Uncle Vernon strode to the fireplace and back, breathing so heav-
ily that his great black mustache ri
ppled, his face still purple with 
concentration. 
All right, he said, stopping 
in front of Harry yet again. All 
right, lets say, for the sake of ar
gument, we accept this protection. 
I still dont see why 
we cant have that Kingsley bloke. 
Harry managed not to roll his eyes, but with difficulty. This ques-
tion had also been addressed half a dozen times. As Ive told you, he said thro
ugh gritted teeth, Kingsley is 
protecting the Mug  I mean
, your Prime Minister. Exactly  hes the best! said
 Uncle Vernon, pointing at the 
blank television screen. The Dursle
ys had spotted Kingsley on the 
news, walking along discreetly behi
nd the Muggle Prime Minister as 
he visited a hospital. This, and the 
fact that Kingsley had mastered 
the knack of dressing like a Mugg
le, not to mentio
n a certain reas-
suring something in his slow, deep
 voice, had caused the Dursleys 
to take to Kingsley in a way that
 they had certainly not done with 
any other wizard, although it was 
true that they had never seen him 
with his earring in. Well, hes taken, said Harry. 
But Hestia Jones and Dedalus 
Diggle are more than up to the job  
If wed even seen CVs . . . be
gan Uncle Vernon, but Harry lost patience. Getting to his feet, he ad
vanced on his uncle, now point-
ing at the TV set himself. 
These accidents arent accidents  the crashes and explosions 
and derailments and whatever el
se has happened since we last 
watched the news. People are disa
ppearing and dying and hes be-
hind it  Voldemort. Ive told you this over and over again, he kills  

 THE  DURSLEYS DEPARTING  35  Muggles for fun. Even the fogs  
theyre caused by dementors, and 
if you cant remember what 
they are, ask your son! 
Dudleys hands jerked upward to
 cover his mouth. With his par-
ents and Harrys eyes upon him, he
 slowly lowered them again and 
asked, There are . 
. . more of them? 
More? laughed Harry. More than the two that attacked us, you 
mean? Of course there are, there 
are hundreds, maybe thousands by 
this time, seeing as they feed off fear and despair  
All right, all right, blustere
d Vernon Dursley. Youve made 
your point  
I hope so, said Har
ry, because once Im seventeen, all of them  
Death Eaters, dementors, maybe even Inferi  which means dead 
bodies enchanted by a Dark wizard 
 will be able to find you and 
will certainly attack you. And if you remember the last time you tried 
to outrun wizards, I think yo
ull agree you need help. 
There was a brief silence in whic
h the distant echo of Hagrid 
smashing down a wooden front door 
seemed to reverberate through 
the intervening years. Aunt Petu
nia was looking at
 Uncle Vernon; 
Dudley was staring at Harry. Finally
 Uncle Vernon blurted out, But 
what about my work? What about 
Dudleys school? I dont suppose 
those things matter to a bu
nch of layabout wizards  
Dont you understand? shouted Harry. 
They will torture and 
kill you like they did my parents! Dad, said Dudley in a loud vo
ice, Dad  Im going with these 
Order people. Dudley, said Harry, for the first time in your life, youre talk-
ing sense. 
He knew that the battle was won. If Dudley was frightened  
 CHAPTER  THREE  36  enough to accept the Orders help, his parents would accompany 
him: There could be no question of
 being separated 
from their Did-
dykins. Harry glanced at the carriage clock on the mantelpiece. 
Theyll be here in about five minutes, he said, and when none 
of the Dursleys replied, he left
 the room. The prospect of part-
ing  probably forever  from hi
s aunt, uncle, and cousin was 
one that he was able to contempl
ate quite cheerfully, but there was 
nevertheless a certain awkwardness in
 the air. What did you say to 
one another at the end of si
xteen years solid dislike? 
Back in his bedroom, Harry fiddled
 aimlessly with his rucksack, 
then poked a couple of owl nuts through the bars of Hedwigs cage. 
They fell with dull 
thuds to the bottom, wh
ere she ignored them. 
Were leaving soon, real
ly soon, Harry told 
her. And then youll 
be able to fly again. 
The doorbell rang. Harry hesitated, then headed back out of his 
room and downstairs. It was too mu
ch to expect Hestia and Dedalus 
to cope with the Dursleys on their own. 
Harry Potter! squeaked an ex
cited voice, the moment Harry 
had opened the door; a small man in
 a mauve top hat was sweeping 
him a deep bow. An 
honor, as ever! 
Thanks, Dedalus, said Harry,
 bestowing a small and em-
barrassed smile upon the dark-haire
d Hestia. Its re
ally good of 
you to do this. . . . Theyre thro
ugh here, my aunt and uncle and 
cousin. . . . Good day to you, Harry Potters relatives! said Dedalus hap-
pily, striding into the living room
. The Dursleys did not look at all 
happy to be addressed thus; Harry 
half expected another change of 
mind. Dudley shrank nearer to his 
mother at the sight of the witch 
and wizard. 
THE  DURSLEYS DEPARTING  37  I see you are packed and ready.
 Excellent! The plan, as Harry 
has told you, is a simple one, 
said Dedalus, pulling an immense 
pocket watch out of his waistcoat and examining it. We shall be 
leaving before Harry does. Due to the danger of using magic in your 
house  Harry being still underage, it could provide the Ministry 
with an excuse to arrest him  we shall be driving, say, ten miles or 
so, before Disapparating to the safe 
location we have picked out for 
you. You know how to drive, I ta
ke it? he asked Uncle Vernon 
politely. Know how to  ? Of course I ru
ddy well know how to drive! 
spluttered Uncle Vernon. 
Very clever of you, sir, very cl
ever, I personally
 would be ut-
terly bamboozled by all those butt
ons and knobs, said Dedalus. 
He was clearly under the impression
 that he was flattering Vernon 
Dursley, who was visibly losing co
nfidence in the plan with every 
word Dedalus spoke. 
Cant even drive, he muttered under his breath, his mustache 
rippling indignantly, but fortunat
ely neither Dedalus nor Hestia 
seemed to hear him. 
You, Harry, Dedalus continued, w
ill wait here for your guard. 
There has been a little change
 in the arrangements  
What dyou mean? said Harry at once. I thought Mad-Eye was 
going to come and take me by Side-Along-Apparition? 
Cant do it, said Hestia tersely. Mad-Eye will explain. 
The Dursleys, who had listened to 
all of this with looks of utter 
incomprehension on their faces, ju
mped as a loud voice screeched, 
Hurry up
! Harry looked all around the room before realizing that 
the voice had issued from Dedaluss pocket watch. 
Quite right, were operating to a very tight schedule, said 
CHAPTER  THREE  38  Dedalus, nodding at his watch and 
tucking it back into his waist-
coat. We are attempting to time
 your departure from the house 
with your familys Disapparition, 
Harry; thus, the charm breaks at 
the moment you all head for safety
. He turned to the Dursleys. 
Well, are we all packed and ready to go? 
None of them answered him. Uncle Vernon was still staring, ap-
palled, at the bulge in Dedaluss waistcoat pocket. 
Perhaps we should wait outside in the hall, Dedalus, murmured 
Hestia. She clearly felt that it would be tactless for them to remain 
in the room while Harry and the 
Dursleys exchanged loving, pos-
sibly tearful farewells. Theres no need, Harry muttered, but Uncle Vernon made any 
further explanation unnece
ssary by saying loudly, 
Well, this is good-bye, then, boy. He swung his right arm upward to shake Harrys hand, but at the 
last moment seemed unable to face 
it, and merely closed his fist and 
began swinging it backward an
d forward like a metronome. Ready, Diddy? asked Aunt Petuni
a, fussily checking the clasp 
of her handbag so as to avoi
d looking at Harry altogether. 
Dudley did not answer, but stood 
there with his 
mouth slightly ajar, reminding Harry a littl
e of the giant, Grawp. 
Come along, then, said Uncle Vernon. 
He had already reached the livi
ng room door when Dudley mum-
bled, I dont understand. 
What dont you understand, popkin? asked Aunt Petunia, look-
ing up at her son. 
Dudley raised a large, hamlik
e hand to point at Harry. 
Why isnt he coming with us? 
 THE  DURSLEYS DEPARTING  39  Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia 
froze where they stood, star-
ing at Dudley as though he had just expressed a desire to become 

a ballerina. 
What? said Uncle Vernon loudly. 
Why isnt he coming too? asked Dudley. 
Well, he  he doesnt want to,
 said Uncle Vernon, turning to 
glare at Harry and adding, You dont want to, do you? Not in the slightest, said Harry. 
There you are, Uncle Vernon told Dudley. Now come on, 
were off. 
He marched out of the room. They heard the front door open, 
but Dudley did not move and after a few faltering steps Aunt Pe-
tunia stopped too. What now? barked Uncle Ve
rnon, reappearing in the 
doorway. It seemed that Dudley was strugg
ling with concepts too difficult 
to put into words. After several 
moments of apparently painful in-
ternal struggle he said, But wheres he going to go? 
Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon l
ooked at each other. It was 
clear that Dudley was frightenin
g them. Hestia Jones broke the 
silence. But . . . surely you know where your nephew is going? she 
asked, looking bewildered. 
Certainly we know, said Vernon
 Dursley. Hes off with some 
of your lot, isnt he? Right, Dudley, lets get in the car, you heard 
the man, were in a hurry. 
Again, Vernon Dursley marched 
as far as the front door, but 
Dudley did not follow. 

 CHAPTER  THREE  40  Off with some of our
 lot? 
Hestia looked outraged. Harry ha
d met this attitude before: 
Witches and wizards seemed stunned 
that his closest living relatives 
took so little interest in the famous Harry Potter. Its fine, Harry assured her. It doesnt matter, honestly. 
Doesnt matter? repeated Hest
ia, her voice rising ominously. 
Dont these people realize what youve been through? What danger 

you are in? The unique position you 
hold in the hearts of the anti-
Voldemort movement? 
Er  no, they dont, said Harry. They think Im a waste of 
space, actually, but Im used to  
I dont think youre a waste of space. 
If Harry had not seen Dudleys 
lips move, he might not have 
believed it. As it was, he stared 
at Dudley for several seconds before 
accepting that it must have been
 his cousin who had spoken; for 
one thing, Dudley had turned red. Harry was embarrassed and 
astonished himself. 
Well . . . er . . . thanks, Dudley. 
Again, Dudley appeared to gra
pple with thoughts too unwieldy 
for expression before mumbling, You saved my life. 
Not really, said Harry. It was your soul the dementor would 
have taken. . . . He looked curiously at his cousin
. They had had virtually no con-
tact during this summer or last, 
as Harry had come back to Privet 
Drive so briefly and kept to his 
room so much. It now dawned on 
Harry, however, that the cup of cold tea on which he had trodden 
that morning might not have been 
a booby trap at all. Although 
rather touched, he was nevertheles
s quite relieved that Dudley ap-
peared to have exhausted his abil
ity to express his feelings. After 
THE  DURSLEYS DEPARTING  41  opening his mouth once or twice mo
re, Dudley subsided into scarlet-
faced silence. 
Aunt Petunia burst into tears. Hestia Jones gave her an approv-
ing look that changed to outrage 
as Aunt Petunia ran forward and 
embraced Dudley rather than Harry. 
S-so sweet, Dudders . . . she 
sobbed into his massive chest. 
S-such a lovely b-boy . . . 
s-saying thank you . . . 
But he hasnt said thank you at 
all! said Hestia indignantly. He 
only said he didnt think 
Harry was a waste of space! 
Yeah, but coming from Dudley thats like I love you, said 
Harry, torn between annoyance and a 
desire to laugh as Aunt Pe-
tunia continued to clutch at Dudl
ey as if he had just saved Harry 
from a burning building. 
Are we going or not?
 roared Uncle Vernon, 
reappearing yet again at the living room door. I thought we were on a tight schedule! Yes  yes, we are, said Dedalus Diggle, who had been watch-
ing these exchanges with an air of bemusement and now seemed to 
pull himself together. We real
ly must be off. Harry  
He tripped forward and wrung Ha
rrys hand with both of his 
own.  good luck. I hope we meet ag
ain. The hopes of the Wizard-
ing world rest upon your shoulders. 
Oh, said Harry, right. Thanks. 

Farewell, Harry, said Hestia, 
also clasping his hand. Our 
thoughts go with you. 
I hope everythings okay, said Harry with a glance toward Aunt 
Petunia and Dudley. 
Oh, Im sure we shall end up th
e best of chums, said Diggle 
brightly, waving his hat as he left
 the room. Hestia followed him. 
CHAPTER  THREE  42  Dudley gently released himself from his mothers clutches and 
walked toward Harry, who had to re
press an urge to
 threaten him 
with magic. Then Dudley held
 out his large, pink hand. 
Blimey, Dudley, said Harry over Aunt Petunias renewed sobs, 
did the dementors blow a diff
erent personality into you? 
Dunno, muttered Dudley. See you, Harry. 
Yeah . . . said Harry, taking
 Dudleys hand and shaking it. 
Maybe. Take care, Big D. 
Dudley nearly smiled, then lumbered from the room. Harry 
heard his heavy footfalls on the gr
aveled drive, and then a car door 
slammed. Aunt Petunia, whose face had been buried in her handkerchief, 
looked around at the sound. She di
d not seem to have expected to 
find herself alone with Harry. Hast
ily stowing her wet handkerchief into her pocket, she said, Well 
 good-bye, and marched toward the door without looking at him. 
Good-bye, said Harry. She stopped and looked back
. For a moment Harry had the 
strangest feeling that she wanted
 to say something to him: She 
gave him an odd, tremulous look an
d seemed to teeter on the edge 
of speech, but then, with a little je
rk of her head, she bustled out of 
the room after her husband and son. 
C H A P T E R  F O U R   43  THE SEVEN POTTERS 
   arry ran back upstairs to his
 bedroom, arriving at the 
window just in time to se
e the Dursleys car swinging 
out of the drive and off up the road. Dedaluss top hat was visible 

between Aunt Petunia and Dudley in
 the backseat. The car turned 
right at the end of Privet Drive, its windows burned scarlet for a 
moment in the now setting su
n, and then it was gone. 
Harry picked up Hedwigs cage, his Firebolt, and his rucksack, 
gave his unnaturally tidy bedroom 
one last sweeping look, and then 
made his ungainly way back downstairs to the hall, where he depos-
ited cage, broomstick, and bag near 
the foot of the stairs. The light 
was fading rapidly now, the hall fu
ll of shadows in the evening light. 
It felt most strange to stand here 
in the silence and know that he 
was about to leave the house for the last time. Long ago, when he 

had been left alone while the Dursleys went out to enjoy themselves, 
the hours of solitude had been a rare treat: Pausing only to sneak 
something tasty from the fridge, he 
had rushed upstairs to play on 
H CHAPTER  FOUR  44  Dudleys computer, or put on the 
television and flicked through the 
channels to his hearts content. It 
gave him an odd, empty feeling to 
remember those times; it was like remembering a younger brother 
whom he had lost. 
Dont you want to take a last 
look at the place? he asked Hed-
wig, who was still sulking with 
her head under her wing. Well 
never be here again. Dont you want to remember all the good times? 

I mean, look at this 
doormat. What memories . . . Dudley puked 
on it after I saved him from the 
dementors. . . . Turns out he was 
grateful after all, can you believe 
it? . . . And last summer, Dumble-
dore walked through that front door. . . . 
Harry lost the thread of his thou
ghts for a moment and Hedwig 
did nothing to help him retrieve it, but continued to sit with her 
head under her wing. Harry turned his back on the front door. And under here, Hedwig  Harry pulled open a door under 
the stairs  is where I used to 
sleep! You never knew me then  
Blimey, its small, Id forgotten. . . . 
Harry looked around at the stacked shoes and umbrellas, re-
membering how he used to wake 
every morning looking up at the 
underside of the staircase, which 
was more often than not adorned 
with a spider or two. Those had 
been the days before he had known 
anything about his true identity; 
before he had found out how his 
parents had died or why such stra
nge things often happened around 
him. But Harry could still remember the dreams that had dogged 
him, even in those days: confused dreams involving flashes of green 
light and once  Uncle Vernon 
had nearly crashed the car when 
Harry had recounted it  
a flying motorbike . . . 
There was a sudden, deafening roar from somewhere nearby. 
Harry straightened up with a jerk 
and smacked the top of his head 
THE  SEVEN  POTTERS  45  on the low door frame. Pausing only to employ a few of Uncle 
Vernons choicest swear words, he 
staggered back into the kitchen, 
clutching his head and staring ou
t of the window into the back 
garden. 
The darkness seemed to be rippling,
 the air itself quivering. Then, 
one by one, figures began to pop in
to sight as their Disillusionment 
Charms lifted. Dominating the sc
ene was Hagrid, wearing a helmet 
and goggles and sitting astride an
 enormous motorbike with a black 
sidecar attached. All around him 
other people were dismounting 
from brooms and, in two cases, skeletal, black winged horses. 
Wrenching open the back door, Ha
rry hurtled into their midst. 
There was a general cry of greeting as Hermione flung her arms 
around him, Ron clapped him on 
the back, and Hagrid said, All 
righ, Harry? Ready fer the off? 
Definitely, said Harry, beamin
g around at them all. But I 
wasnt expecting this many of you! 
Change of plan, growled Mad-
Eye, who was holding two enor-
mous, bulging sacks, and whose 
magical eye was spinning from 
darkening sky to house to garden wi
th dizzying rapidity. Lets get 
undercover before we talk you through it. 
Harry led them all back into the kitchen where, laughing and 
chattering, they settled on chairs, 
sat themselves upon Aunt Petunias 
gleaming work surfaces, or leaned 
up against her spotless appliances: 
Ron, long and lanky; Hermione, her 
bushy hair tied 
back in a long 
plait; Fred and George, grinning 
identically; Bill, badly scarred and 
long-haired; Mr. Weasley, kind-faced
, balding, his spectacles a little 
awry; Mad-Eye, battle-worn, one-le
gged, his bright blue magical 
eye whizzing in its socket; Tonks, whose short hair was her favorite 

shade of bright pink; Lupin, grayer
, more lined; Fleur, slender and 
CHAPTER  FOUR  46  beautiful, with her long silvery blonde hair; Kingsley, bald, black, 
broad-shouldered; Hagrid, with his 
wild hair and beard, standing 
hunchbacked to avoid hitting his 
head on the ceiling; and Mun-
dungus Fletcher, small, dirty, an
d hangdog, with his droopy basset 
hounds eyes and matted hair. Har
rys heart seemed to expand and 
glow at the sight: He felt incredib
ly fond of all of them, even Mund-
ungus, whom he had tried to strangle the last time they had met. 
Kingsley, I thought you were looking after the Muggle Prime 
Minister? he called across the room. 
He can get along without me fo
r one night, said Kingsley. 
Youre more important. 
Harry, guess what? said Tonks from her perch on top of the 
washing machine, and she wiggled her 
left hand at him; a ring glit-
tered there. 
You got married? Harry yelped, 
looking from her to Lupin. 
Im sorry you couldnt be ther
e, Harry, it was very quiet. 
Thats brilliant, congrat  
All right, all right, well have 
time for a cozy catch-up later! 
roared Moody over the hubbub, an
d silence fell in the kitchen. 
Moody dropped his sacks at his feet
 and turned to Harry. As Deda-
lus probably told you, we had to abandon Plan A. Pius Thicknesse 
has gone over, which gives us a big 
problem. Hes made it an impris-
onable offense to conn
ect this house to the Floo Network, place a 
Portkey here, or Apparate in or ou
t. All done in the name of your 
protection, to prevent You-Know-Who
 getting in at you. Absolutely 
pointless, seeing as your mother
s charm does that already. What 
hes really done is to stop 
you getting out of here safely. 
Second problem: Youre underage
, which means youve still got 
the Trace on you. 
THE  SEVEN  POTTERS  47  I dont  
The Trace, the Trace! said 
Mad-Eye impatiently. The charm 
that detects magical activity around under-seventeens, the way the 
Ministry finds out about underage ma
gic! If you, or anyone around 
you, casts a spell to get you out of here, Thicknesse is going to know about it, and so will the Death Eaters. We cant wait for the Trace to 
break, because the moment you 
turn seventeen youll lose all the pr
otection your mother gave you. 
In short: Pius Thicknesse thinks
 hes got you cornered good and 
proper. Harry could not help 
but agree with the 
unknown Thicknesse. 
So what are we going to do? 
Were going to use th
e only means of transport left to us, the 
only ones the Trace cant detect, because we dont need to cast spells 
to use them: brooms, thestrals, and Hagrids motorbike. 
Harry could see flaws in this plan; 
however, he held his tongue to give Mad-Eye the chance to address them. 
Now, your mothers charm will only break under two conditions: 
when you come of age, or  Moody gestured around the pristine 
kitchen  you no longer call this
 place home. You and your aunt 
and uncle are going your separate ways tonight, in the full under-
standing that youre never going to live together again, correct? 
Harry nodded. 

So this time, when you leave, ther
ell be no going back, and the 
charm will break the moment you get outside its range. Were choos-
ing to break it early, because the alternative is waiting for You-Know-
Who to come and seize you the moment you turn seventeen. 
The one thing weve got on ou
r side is that You-Know-Who 
doesnt know were movi
ng you tonight. Weve 
leaked a fake trail 
CHAPTER  FOUR  48  to the Ministry: They think youre not leaving until the thirtieth. 
However, this is You-Know-Who wer
e dealing with, so we cant just 
rely on him getting the date wrong; hes bound to have a couple of 
Death Eaters patrolling the skies in 
this general area, just in case. So, 
weve given a dozen different houses
 every protection we can throw 
at them. They all look like they could be the place were going to 
hide you, theyve all got some connection with the Order: my house, 

Kingsleys place, Mollys Auntie
 Muriels  you get the idea. 
Yeah, said Harry, not entirely tr
uthfully, because he could still 
spot a gaping hole in the plan. 
Youll be going to Tonkss parents. Once youre within the 
boundaries of the protective enchantments weve put on their house, 
youll be able to us
e a Portkey to the Bu
rrow. Any questions? 
Er  yes, said Harry. Maybe 
they wont know which of the 
twelve secure houses Im heading for 
at first, but wont it be sort of 
obvious once  he performed a quick headcount  fourteen of 
us fly off toward Tonkss parents? 
Ah, said Moody, I forgot to 
mention the key point. Fourteen 
of us wont be flying to Tonkss 
parents. There will be seven Harry 
Potters moving through the skies tonight, each of them with a com-

panion, each pair heading for a different safe house. 
From inside his cloak Moody now withdrew a flask of what 
looked like mud. There was no 
need for him to say another word; 
Harry understood the rest of the plan immediately. No! he said loudly, his voice 
ringing through the kitchen. No 
way! I told them youd take it like this, said Hermione with a hint 
of complacency. If you think Im going to let si
x people risk their lives  ! 
THE  SEVEN  POTTERS  49   because its the first time
 for all of us, said Ron. This is different, pretending to be me  

Well, none of us really fancy 
it, Harry, said Fred earnestly. 
Imagine if something went wrong and we were stuck as specky, 
scrawny gits forever. 
Harry did not smile. 
You cant do it if I dont cooper
ate, you need me to give you 
some hair. 
Well, thats that plan scuppered, said George. Obviously 
theres no chance at all of us ge
tting a bit of your hair unless you 
cooperate. 
Yeah, thirteen of us against o
ne bloke whos not allowed to use 
magic; weve got no chance, said Fred. 
Funny, said Harry,
 really amusing. 
If it has to come to force, th
en it will, growled Moody, his 
magical eye now quivering a little in its socket 
as he glared at Harry. 
Everyone heres overage, Potter, an
d theyre all prepared to take 
the risk. Mundungus shrugged and grimaced; the magical eye swerved 
sideways to glare at him out of the side of Moodys head. 
Lets have no more arguments. Times wearing on. I want a few 
of your hairs, boy, now. 
But this is mad, theres no need  

No need! snarled Moody. With You-Know-Who out there 
and half the Ministry on his side? 
Potter, if were lucky hell have 
swallowed the fake bait and hell 
be planning to ambush you on 
the thirtieth, but hed be mad no
t to have a Death Eater or two 
keeping an eye out, its what Id 
do. They might not 
be able to get 
at you or this house while your mo
thers charm holds,
 but its about 
CHAPTER  FOUR  50  to break and they know the rough position of the place. Our only 
chance is to use decoys. Even 
You-Know-Who cant split himself 
into seven. 
Harry caught Hermiones eye 
and looked away at once. So, Potter  some of your hair, if you please. 
Harry glanced at Ron, who grimaced
 at him in a just-do-it sort 
of way. Now! barked Moody. 
With all of their eyes upon him
, Harry reached up to the top of 
his head, grabbed a hank of hair, and pulled. 
Good, said Moody, limping forwar
d as he pulled the stopper 
out of the flask of potion. Straight in here, if you please. 
Harry dropped the hair into the 
mudlike liquid. The moment it 
made contact with its surface, the 
potion began to froth and smoke, 
then, all at once, it turned a clear, bright gold. 
Ooh, you look much tastier than Crabbe and Goyle, Harry, said 
Hermione, before catching sight of
 Rons raised eyebrows, blushing 
slightly, and saying, Oh, you know
 what I mean  Goyles potion 
looked like bogies. 
Right then, fake Potters line up over here, please, said Moody. 

Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, and Fleur lined up in front of 
Aunt Petunias gleaming sink. 
Were one short, said Lupin. 

Here, said Hagrid gruffly, an
d he lifted Mundungus by the 
scruff of the neck and dropped him
 down beside Fleur, who wrin-
kled her nose pointedly and mo
ved along to stand between Fred 
and George instead. 
Ive toldjer, Id sooner be a protector, said Mundungus. 

Shut it, growled Moody. As Ive
 already told you, you spineless 
THE  SEVEN  POTTERS  51  worm, any Death Eaters we run into
 will be aiming to capture Pot-
ter, not kill him. Dumbledore always said You-Know-Who would 

want to finish Potter in person. It
ll be the protectors who have got 
the most to worry about, the Deat
h Eatersll want to kill them. 
Mundungus did not look particularly reassured, but Moody was 
already pulling half a dozen eggcup
-sized glasses from inside his 
cloak, which he handed out, before
 pouring a little Polyjuice Potion 
into each one. 
Altogether, then . . . 
Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, Fleur, and Mundungus drank. 
All of them gasped and grimaced as the potion hit their throats: 
At once, their features began to bubble and distort like hot wax. 
Hermione and Mundungus were shooting upward; Ron, Fred, and 
George were shrinking; their hair was darkening, Hermiones and 
Fleurs appearing to shoot backward into their skulls. 
Moody, quite unconcerned, was now loosening the ties of the 
large sacks he had brought with
 him. When he straightened up 
again, there were six Harry Potters gasping and panting in front 
of him. Fred and George turned to each other and said together, Wow 
 were identical! 
I dunno, though, I think Im stil
l better-looking, said Fred, 
examining his reflecti
on in the kettle. Bah, said Fleur, checking herself in the microwave door, Bill, 
dont look at me  Im ideous. 
Those whose clothes are a bit roomy, Ive got smaller here, said 
Moody, indicating the first sack, an
d vice versa. Dont forget the 
glasses, theres six pairs in the si
de pocket. And when youre dressed, 
theres luggage in 
the other sack. CHAPTER  FOUR  52  The real Harry thought that this 
might just be the most bizarre 
thing he had ever seen, and he had seen some extremely odd things. 

He watched as his six doppelgange
rs rummaged in the sacks, pull-
ing out sets of clothes, putting on glasses, stuffing their own things 
away. He felt like asking them to show a little more respect for his 
privacy as they all began strippin
g off with impunity, clearly much 
more at ease with displaying hi
s body than they would have been 
with their own. 
I knew Ginny was lying about th
at tattoo, said Ron, looking 
down at his bare chest. Harry, your eyesight really is awful, said Hermione, as she put 
on glasses. Once dressed, the fake Harrys took rucksacks and owl cages, each containing a stuffed snowy ow
l, from the second sack. 
Good, said Moody, as at last se
ven dressed, bespectacled, and 
luggage-laden Harrys faced him. 
The pairs will be as follows: 
Mundungus will be traveling with me, by broom  
Whym I with you? grunted the Harry nearest the back door. 
Because youre the one that 
needs watching, growled Moody, 
and sure enough, his magical ey
e did not waver from Mundungus 
as he continued, Arthur and Fred  
Im George, said the twin at 
whom Moody was pointing. Cant 
you even tell us apar
t when were Harry? Sorry, George  
Im only yanking your wa
nd, Im Fred really  
Enough messing around! snar
led Moody. The other one  
George or Fred or whoever you are  youre with Remus. Miss 
Delacour  

 THE  SEVEN  POTTERS  53  Im taking Fleur on a 
thestral, said Bill. 
Shes not that fond 
of brooms. Fleur walked over to stand beside
 him, giving him a soppy, slav-
ish look that Harry hoped with all 
his heart would never appear on 
his face again. Miss Granger with
 Kingsley, again by thestral  
Hermione looked reassure
d as she answered King
sleys smile; Harry 
knew that Hermione 
too lacked confidence
 on a broomstick. 
Which leaves you and me, Ron! 
said Tonks brightly, knocking 
over a mug tree as she waved at him. 
Ron did not look quite as pleased as Hermione. 
An youre with me, Harry. That 
all righ? said Hagrid, looking 
a little anxious. Well be on the bike, brooms an thestrals cant 
take me weight, see. Not a lot o room on the seat with me on it, 
though, so youll be in the sidecar. Thats great, said Harry, 
not altogether truthfully. 
We think the Death Eaters will 
expect you to be on a broom, 
said Moody, who seemed to gue
ss how Harry was feeling. Snapes 
had plenty of time to tell them everything about you hes never men-
tioned before, so if we do run into any Death Eaters, were betting 

theyll choose one of the Potters who look at home on a broomstick. All right then, he went on, tying up
 the sack with the fake Potters 
clothes in it and leading the way ba
ck to the door, I make it three 
minutes until were supposed to leave. No point locking the back 
door, it wont keep the 
Death Eaters out when 
they come looking. 
. . . Come on. . . . 
Harry hurried into the hall to fetch his rucksack, Firebolt, and 
Hedwigs cage before joining the ot
hers in the dark back garden.  
 CHAPTER  FOUR  54  On every side broomsticks were leaping into hands; Hermione had 
already been helped up onto a gr
eat black thestral by Kingsley, 
Fleur onto the other by Bill. Hagr
id was standing ready beside the 
motorbike, goggles on. 
Is this it? Is this Siriuss bike? 
The very same, sa
id Hagrid, beaming down at Harry. An the 
last time yeh was on it, Harry,
 I could fit yeh 
in one hand! Harry could not help but feel a li
ttle humiliated as he got into 
the sidecar. It placed him seve
ral feet below everybody else: Ron 
smirked at the sight of him sittin
g there like a child in a bumper 
car. Harry stuffed his rucksack 
and broomstick down by his feet 
and rammed Hedwigs cage betw
een his knees. It was extremely 
uncomfortable. 
Arthurs done a bit o
 tinkerin, said Hagrid, quite oblivious 
to Harrys discomfort. He settled 
himself astride the motorcycle, 
which creaked slightly and sank in
ches into the ground. Its got a 
few tricks up its handlebars 
now. Tha one was my idea. 
He pointed a thick finger at 
a purple button near the speed-
ometer. Please be careful, Hagrid, said
 Mr. Weasley, who was standing 
beside them, holding his broomstick.
 Im still not sure that was 
advisable and its certainly only to be used in emergencies. 
All right then, said Moody. E
veryone ready, please; I want 
us all to leave at exactly the same time or the whole point of the 
diversions lost. 
Everybody mounted their brooms. Hold tight now, Ron, said Tonks, and Harry saw Ron throw a 
furtive, guilty look at Lupin before
 placing his hands on either side  
 THE  SEVEN  POTTERS  55  of her waist. Hagrid kicked the moto
rbike into life: It roared like a 
dragon, and the sidecar began to vibrate. 
Good luck, everyone, shoute
d Moody. See you all in about 
an hour at the Burrow. On the co
unt of three. One . . . two . . . 
THREE. There was a great roar from th
e motorbike, and Harry felt the 
sidecar give a nasty lurch: He wa
s rising through the air fast, his 
eyes watering slightly, hair whipped back off his face. Around him 
brooms were soaring upward too; the long black tail of a thestral 
flicked past. His legs, jammed into 
the sidecar by Hedwigs cage and his rucksack, were already sore an
d starting to go numb. So great 
was his discomfort that 
he almost forgot to take a last glimpse of 
number four, Privet Drive; by the 
time he looked over the edge of 
the sidecar he could no longer te
ll which one it was. Higher and 
higher they climbe
d into the sky  And then, out of nowhere, out of 
nothing, they were surrounded. 
At least thirty hooded figures,
 suspended in midair, formed a 
vast circle in the midst of wh
ich the Order members had risen, 
oblivious  Screams, a blaze of gr
een light on every side: Hagrid gave a yell 
and the motorbike rolled over. Harry 
lost any sense of where they 
were: Streetlights above him, yells around him, he was clinging to 
the sidecar for dear life. Hedwigs
 cage, the Firebolt, and his ruck-
sack slipped from beneath his knees  
No  HEDWIG! 
The broomstick spun to earth, 
but he just managed to seize 
the strap of his rucksack and the 
top of the cage as the motorbike 
swung the right way up again. A se
conds relief, and then another   CHAPTER  FOUR  56  burst of green light. The owl scre
eched and fell to the floor of the 
cage. No  NO! 
The motorbike zoomed forward;
 Harry glimpsed hooded Death 
Eaters scattering as Hagrid blasted through their circle. 
Hedwig  Hedwig
  
But the owl lay motionless and path
etic as a toy on the floor of 
her cage. He could not take it in, and his terror for the others was 
paramount. He glanced over his sh
oulder and saw a mass of people 
moving, flares of green light, two 
pairs of people on brooms soaring 
off into the distance, but he could not tell who they were  
Hagrid, weve got to go back, we
ve got to go back! he yelled 
over the thunderous roar of the 
engine, pulling out his wand, ram-
ming Hedwigs cage onto the floor, 
refusing to beli
eve that she was 
dead. Hagrid, TURN AROUND! 
My jobs ter get you there safe
, Harry! bellowed Hagrid, and 
he opened the throttle. Stop  STOP! Harry shouted, but as he looked back again 
two jets of green light flew past hi
s left ear: Four Death Eaters had 
broken away from the circle and 
were pursuing them, aiming for 
Hagrids broad back. Ha
grid swerved, but the Death Eaters were 
keeping up with the bike; more 
curses shot after them, and Harry 
had to sink low into 
the sidecar to avoid th
em. Wriggling around 
he cried, 
Stupefy
! and a red bolt of light shot from his own wand, 
cleaving a gap between the four purs
uing Death Eaters as they scat-
tered to avoid it. 
Hold on, Harry, thisll do for e
m! roared Hagrid, and Harry 
looked up just in time to see Hagrid slamming a thick finger into 

a green button near 
the fuel gauge. 
THE  SEVEN  POTTERS  57  A wall, a solid brick wall, erupted out of the exhaust pipe. Cran-
ing his neck, Harry saw it expand in
to being in midair. Three of the 
Death Eaters swerved and avoided it, but the fourth was not so lucky: 
He vanished from view and then dropped like a boulder from behind 
it, his broomstick broken into pieces. One of his fellows slowed up to 
save him, but they and the airborne wall were swallowed by darkness 
as Hagrid leaned low over 
the handlebars and sped up. 
More Killing Curses flew past
 Harrys head from the two re-
maining Death Eaters wands; they
 were aiming for Hagrid. Harry 
responded with further Stunning 
Spells: Red and green collided in midair in a shower of multicolored
 sparks, and Harry thought wildly 
of fireworks, and the Muggles below who would have no idea what 
was happening  Here we go again, Harry, hold on! yelled Hagrid, and he jabbed 
at a second button. This
 time a great net burs
t from the bikes ex-
haust, but the Death Eaters were ready for it. Not only did they 
swerve to avoid it, but the compan
ion who had slowed to save their 
unconscious friend had caught up
. He bloomed suddenly out of the 
darkness and now three of them we
re pursuing the motorbike, all 
shooting curses after it. 
Thisll do it, Harry, hold on ti
ght! yelled Hagrid, and Harry 
saw him slam his whole hand onto
 the purple button beside the 
speedometer. 
With an unmistakable bellowing ro
ar, dragon fire burst from the 
exhaust, white-hot and blue, and th
e motorbike shot forward like a 
bullet with a sound of wrenching 
metal. Harry sa
w the Death Eat-ers swerve out of sight to avoid the 
deadly trail of flame, and at the 
same time felt the sidecar sway om
inously: Its metal connections to 
the bike had splintered with
 the force of acceleration. 
CHAPTER  FOUR  58  Its all righ, Harry! bellowed Ha
grid, now thrown flat onto his 
back by the surge of speed; nobody
 was steering now, and the sidecar 
was starting to twist violently in the bikes slipstream. 
Im on it, Harry, don worry! Ha
grid yelled, and from inside 
his jacket pocket he pulled his flowery pink umbrella. 
Hagrid! No! Let me! REPARO
! There was a deafening bang and th
e sidecar broke away from the 
bike completely: Harry sped forward, propelled by the impetus of 
the bikes flight, then the sidecar began to lose height  
In desperation Harry pointed his wand at the sidecar and shouted, 
Wingardium Leviosa
! The sidecar rose like a cork, unsteer
able but at leas
t still airborne: 
He had but a split seconds relief, however, as more curses streaked 
past him: The three Death 
Eaters were closing in. 
Im comin, Harry! Hagrid yelled
 from out of the darkness, but 
Harry could feel the sidecar beginnin
g to sink again: Crouching as 
low as he could, he pointed at 
the middle of the oncoming figures 
and yelled, Impedimenta
! The jinx hit the middle Death Eate
r in the chest: For a moment 
the man was absurdly spread-eagled in midair as though he had hit 
an invisible barrier: One of his fellows almost collided with him  
Then the sidecar began to fall 
in earnest, and the remaining 
Death Eater shot a curse so close to
 Harry that he had to duck below 
the rim of the car, knocking out a 
tooth on the edge of his seat  
Im comin, Harry, Im comin! 
A huge hand seized the back 
of Harrys robes and hoisted him 
out of the plummeting sidecar; Ha
rry pulled his rucksack with him 
as he dragged himself onto the mo
torbikes seat and found himself 
THE  SEVEN  POTTERS  59  back-to-back with Hagrid. As they
 soared upward, away from the 
two remaining Death Eaters, Harry spat blood out of his mouth, 
pointed his wand at the falli
ng sidecar, and yelled, 
Confringo
! He knew a dreadful, gut-wrenching pang for Hedwig as it ex-
ploded; the Death Eater nearest it 
was blasted off his broom and fell 
from sight; his companion 
fell back and vanished. 
Harry, Im sorry, Im sorry, moaned Hagrid, I shouldnta tried 
ter repair it meself  yehve got no room  
Its not a problem, just keep fl
ying! Harry shouted back, as two 
more Death Eaters emerged out of the darkness, drawing closer. 
As the curses came shooting acro
ss the intervening space again, 
Hagrid swerved and zigzagged: 
Harry knew that Hagrid did not 
dare use the dragon-fire button ag
ain, with Harry seated so inse-
curely. Harry sent Stunning Spell after Stunning Spell back at their 
pursuers, barely holding them off. He shot another blocking jinx 

at them: The closest Death Eater sw
erved to avoid it and his hood 
slipped, and by the red light of 
his next Stunning Spell, Harry saw 
the strangely blank face of Stanley Shunpike  Stan  
Expelliarmus! Harry yelled. Thats him, its him, 
its the real one! 
The hooded Death Eaters shout reached Harry even above the thunder of the motorbikes engine:
 Next moment, both pursuers 
had fallen back and di
sappeared from view. Harry, whats happened? bellowed Hagrid. Whereve they 
gone? 
I dont know! But Harry was afraid: The hooded 
Death Eater had shouted Its the real one!; how had he known? He gazed around at the appar-

ently empty darkness and felt it
s menace. Where were they? 
CHAPTER  FOUR  60  He clambered around on the seat 
to face forward and seized hold 
of the back of Hagrids jacket. Hagrid, do the dragon-fire thing again, lets get out of here! 
Hold on tight, then, Harry! There was a deafening, screeching 
roar again and the white-blue 
fire shot from the exhaust: Harry 
felt himself slipping backward off 
what little of the seat he had,
 Hagrid flung backward upon him, 
barely maintaining his grip on the handlebars  
I think weve lost em Harry, I think weve done it! yelled 
Hagrid. 
But Harry was not convinced: Fear 
lapped at him as he looked 
left and right for pursuers he wa
s sure would come. . . . Why had 
they fallen back? One of them
 had still had a wand. . . . 
Its him
 . . . its the real one.
 . . . They had said it ri
ght after he had tried to 
Disarm Stan. . . . Were nearly there, Harry, wev
e nearly made it! shouted 
Hagrid. 
Harry felt the bike drop a little, 
though the lights down on the 
ground still seemed remote as stars. 
Then the scar on his forehead bur
ned like fire; as a Death Eater 
appeared on either side of the bi
ke, two Killing Curses missed Harry by millimeters, ca
st from behind  
And then Harry saw him. Voldemort 
was flying like smoke on 
the wind, without broomstick or th
estral to hold him, his snake-
like face gleaming out of the blac
kness, his white fingers raising his 
wand again  
Hagrid let out a bellow of fear 
and steered the motorbike into a 
vertical dive. Clinging on for dear
 life, Harry sent Stunning Spells 
flying at random into the whirling
 night. He saw a body fly past 
THE  SEVEN  POTTERS  61  him and knew he had hit one of them, but then he heard a bang 
and saw sparks from the engine; th
e motorbike spiraled through the 
air, completely out of control  Green jets of light shot past them again. Harry had no idea which 
way was up, which down: His scar was still burning; he expected to 
die at any second. A hooded figure
 on a broomstick was feet from 
him, he saw it raise its arm  
NO! 
With a shout of fury Hagrid launch
ed himself off the bike at the 
Death Eater; to his horror, Harry
 saw both Hagrid and the Death 
Eater falling out of sight, their 
combined weight too much for the 
broomstick  
Barely gripping the plummeting bike with his knees, Harry heard 
Voldemort scream, 
Mine
! It was over: He could not see or
 hear where Voldemort was; he 
glimpsed another Death Eater swooping out of the way and heard, 
Avada  As the pain from Harrys scar 
forced his eyes shut, his wand 
acted of its own accord. 
He felt it drag his hand around like some 
great magnet, saw a spurt of gold
en fire through his half-closed 
eyelids, heard a crack and a scream of fury. The remaining Death 
Eater yelled; Voldemort screamed, 
No!: Somehow, Harry found 
his nose an inch from the dragon-fire button. He punched it with his 

wand-free hand and the bike shot mo
re flames into the air, hurtling 
straight toward the ground. 
Hagrid! Harry called, holding on
 to the bike for dear life. 
Hagrid  Accio Hagrid! The motorbike sped up, sucked towa
rd the earth. Face level with 
the handlebars, Harry could see nothing but distant lights growing 
CHAPTER  FOUR  62  nearer and nearer: He was going to
 crash and there was nothing he 
could do about it. Behind him came another scream, 
Your wand, 
Selwyn, give me your wand
! He felt Voldemort before he saw hi
m. Looking sideways, he stared 
into the red eyes and was sure they
 would be the last thing he ever 
saw: Voldemort preparing to
 curse him once more  And then Voldemort vanished. Harry looked down and saw 
Hagrid spread-eagled on the ground below him. He pulled hard 
at the handlebars to avoid hitting
 him, groped for the brake, but 
with an earsplitting, ground-tremb
ling crash, he smashed into a 
muddy pond. 
C H A P T E R  F I V E   63  FALLEN WARRIOR 
   agrid? Harry struggled to raise himself out of the debris of 
metal and leather that surrounded him; his hands sank into inches 

of muddy water as he tried to 
stand. He could not understand 
where Voldemort had gone and expe
cted him to swoop out of the 
darkness at any moment. Somet
hing hot and wet was trickling down his chin and from his forehead. He crawled out of the pond 
and stumbled toward the great da
rk mass on the ground that was 
Hagrid. 
Hagrid? Hagrid, talk to me  But the dark mass did not stir. Whos there? Is it Pott
er? Are you Harry Potter? 
Harry did not recognize the mans voice. Then a woman shouted, 
Theyve crashed, Ted! Crashed in the garden! 
Harrys head was swimming. Hagrid, he repeated stupidly, and hi
s knees buckled. 
H CHAPTER  FIVE  64  The next thing he knew, he was 
lying on his back on what felt 
like cushions, with a burning sens
ation in his ribs and right arm. 
His missing tooth had been regrown. The scar on his forehead was 
still throbbing. 
Hagrid? He opened his eyes and saw that he
 was lying on a sofa in an un-
familiar, lamplit sitting room. His 
rucksack lay on the floor a short 
distance away, wet and muddy. A fa
ir-haired, big-bellied man was 
watching Harry anxiously. Hagrids fine, son, said the man, the wifes seeing to him now. 
How are you feeling? Anything else
 broken? Ive fixed your ribs, 
your tooth, and your arm. Im Ted,
 by the way, Te
d Tonks  Doras 
father. 
Harry sat up too quickly: Lights popped in front of his eyes and 
he felt sick and giddy. 
Voldemort  Easy, now, said Ted Tonks, 
placing a hand on Harrys shoul-
der and pushing him back against the cushions. That was a nasty 
crash you just had. What happened, anyway? Something go wrong 
with the bike? Arthur Weasley overstretch himself again, him and 

his Muggle contraptions? 
No, said Harry, as his scar puls
ed like an open wound. Death 
Eaters, loads of them  we were chased  
Death Eaters? said Ted sharply. What dyou mean, Death 
Eaters? I thought they 
didnt know you were 
being moved tonight, 
I thought  They knew, said Harry. 
Ted Tonks looked up at the ceilin
g as though he 
could see through 
it to the sky above. 
FALLEN WARRIOR  65  Well, we know our protective ch
arms hold, then, dont we? They 
shouldnt be able to get within a 
hundred yards of the place in any 
direction. Now Harry understood why Vold
emort had vanished; it had 
been at the point when the motorb
ike crossed the barrier of the 
Orders charms. He only hoped th
ey would continue to work: He 
imagined Voldemort, a hundred ya
rds above them as they spoke, 
looking for a way to penetrate wh
at Harry visualized as a great 
transparent bubble. 
He swung his legs off the sofa; he needed to see Hagrid with 
his own eyes before he would believe that he was alive. He had 
barely stood up, however, when a do
or opened and Hagrid squeezed 
through it, his face covered in mu
d and blood, limp
ing a little but 
miraculously alive. 
Harry! 
Knocking over two delicate tables
 and an aspidistra, he covered 
the floor between them in two strides and pulled Harry into a hug 
that nearly cracked his newly repaired ribs. Blimey, Harry, how did 
yeh get out o that? I thought we were both goners. 
Yeah, me too. I cant believe  

Harry broke off. He had just noticed the woman who had entered 
the room behind Hagrid. You! he shouted, and he thrust 
his hand into his pocket, but it 
was empty. Your wands here, son, said Te
d, tapping it on Harrys arm. 
It fell right beside you, I picked
 it up. And thats my wife youre 
shouting at. 
Oh, Im  Im sorry. 

As she moved forward into the 
room, Mrs. Tonkss resemblance 
CHAPTER  FIVE  66  to her sister Bellatrix became mu
ch less pronounced: Her hair was a 
light, soft brown and her eyes we
re wider and kinder. Nevertheless, 
she looked a little haughty 
after Harrys exclamation. 
What happened to our daughter? she asked. Hagrid said you 
were ambushed; where is Nymphadora? 
I dont know, said Harry. W
e dont know what happened to 
anyone else. 
She and Ted exchanged looks. A mixture of fear and guilt gripped 
Harry at the sight of their expressions; if any of the others had died, 
it was his fault, all his fault. He
 had consented to the plan, given 
them his hair. . . . The Portkey, he said, remembering all of a sudden. Weve got 
to get back to the Burrow and find 
out  then well be able to send 
you word, or  or Tonk
s will, once shes  
Dorall be okay, Dromeda, said 
Ted. She knows her stuff, shes 
been in plenty of tight spots with
 the Aurors. The Portkeys through here, he added to Harry. Its su
pposed to leave in
 three minutes, 
if you want to take it. 
Yeah, we do, said Harry. He seized his rucksack, swung it onto 
his shoulders. I  
He looked at Mrs. Tonks, wantin
g to apologize for the state of 
fear in which he left her and for 
which he felt so terribly respon-
sible, but no words occurred to 
him that did not seem hollow and 
insincere. 
Ill tell Tonks  Dora  to se
nd word, when she . . . Thanks 
for patching us up, than
ks for everything. I  
He was glad to leave the room an
d follow Ted Tonk
s along a short 
hallway and into a bedroom. Hagrid came after them, bending low 

to avoid hitting his head on the door lintel. FALLEN WARRIOR  67  There you go, son. 
Thats the Portkey. 
Mr. Tonks was pointing to a smal
l, silver-backed hairbrush lying 
on the dressing table. 
Thanks, said Harry, reaching out 
to place a finger on it, ready 
to leave. 
Wait a moment, said Hagrid, 
looking around. Harry, wheres 
Hedwig? 
She . . . she got hit, said Harry. 
The realization crashed over him: 
He felt ashamed of himself as 
the tears stung his eyes. The owl had been his companion, his one 

great link with the magical world 
whenever he had been forced to 
return to th
e Dursleys. 
Hagrid reached out a great hand
 and patted him painfully on 
the shoulder. Never mind, he said gruffly. 
Never mind. She had a great old 
life  
Hagrid! said Ted Tonks warnin
gly, as the hairbrush glowed 
bright blue, and Hagrid only just 
got his forefinger to it in time. 
With a jerk behind the navel as 
though an invisible hook and line had dragged him forward, Harry was pulled into nothingness, spin-

ning uncontrollably, his finger glued to the Portkey as he and Hagrid 
hurtled away from Mr. Tonks. 
Seconds later Harrys feet slammed 
onto hard ground and he fell onto 
his hands and knees in the yard of 
the Burrow. He heard screams. Thro
wing aside the no longer glowing 
hairbrush, Harry stood up, swaying 
slightly, and saw Mrs. Weasley 
and Ginny running down the steps by
 the back door as Hagrid, who 
had also collapsed on landing, clambered laboriously to his feet. 
Harry? You are the real Harry? What happened? Where are the 
others? cried Mrs. Weasley. CHAPTER  FIVE  68  What dyou mean? Isnt anyone
 else back? Harry panted. 
The answer was clearly etched 
in Mrs. Weasleys pale face. The Death Eaters were waiting for us, Harry told her. We 
were surrounded the moment we t
ook off  they knew it was to-
night  I dont know what happened to anyone else, four of them 
chased us, it was all we could 
do to get away, and then Voldemort 
caught up with us  
He could hear the self-justifying 
note in his voice, the plea for 
her to understand why he did no
t know what had happened to her 
sons, but  
Thank goodness youre all right,
 she said, pulling him into a 
hug he did not feel he deserved. 
Havent go any brandy, have yeh, Molly? asked Hagrid a little 
shakily. Fer medicinal purposes? 
She could have summoned it by ma
gic, but as she hurried back 
toward the crooked house, Harry k
new that she wanted to hide her 
face. He turned to Ginny and she answered his unspoken plea for 
information at once. 
Ron and Tonks should have been
 back first, but they missed 
their Portkey, it came back with
out them, she said, pointing at 
a rusty oil can lying on the grou
nd nearby. And that one, she 
pointed at an ancient sneaker, 
should have been Dad and Freds, 
they were supposed to be second. 
You and Hagrid were third and, 
she checked her watch, 
if they made it, Ge
orge and Lupin ought 
to be back in about a minute. 
Mrs. Weasley reappeared carrying 
a bottle of brandy, which she 
handed to Hagrid. He uncorked it
 and drank it straight down in 
one. Mum! shouted Ginny, pointing to a spot several feet away. 
FALLEN WARRIOR  69  A blue light had appeared in the darkness: It grew larger and 
brighter, and Lupin and George ap
peared, spinning and then falling. 
Harry knew immediatel
y that there was something wrong: Lupin 
was supporting George, who was unconscious and whose face was 
covered in blood. Harry ran forward and seized Georges legs. Together, he and 
Lupin carried George into the house and through the kitchen to the 

sitting room, where they laid him on
 the sofa. As the lamplight fell 
across Georges head, Ginny gasped
 and Harrys stomach lurched: 
One of Georges ears was missing.
 The side of his head and neck 
were drenched in wet, sh
ockingly scarlet blood. No sooner had Mrs. Weasley b
ent over her son than Lupin 
grabbed Harry by the upper arm an
d dragged him, none too gently, back into the kitchen, where Hagrid
 was still attempting to ease his 
bulk through the back door. Oi! said Hagrid indignantly. L
e go of him! Le go of Harry! 
Lupin ignored him. 
What creature sat in the corner the first time that Harry Potter 
visited my office at Hogwarts? he
 said, giving Harry a small shake. 
Answer me! 
A  a grindylow in a tank, wasnt it? 
Lupin released Harry and fell ba
ck against a kitchen cupboard. Wha was tha abou
t? roared Hagrid. Im sorry, Harry, but I had to check, said Lupin tersely. Weve 
been betrayed. Voldemort knew that
 you were being moved tonight 
and the only people who could have 
told him were directly involved 
in the plan. You might have been an impostor. 
So why aren you checkin me? 
panted Hagrid, still struggling 
to fit through the door. CHAPTER  FIVE  70  Youre half-giant, said Lupin, looking up at Hagrid. The 
Polyjuice Potion 
is designed for 
human use only. None of the Order would have 
told Voldemort we were mov-
ing tonight, said Harry. The idea
 was dreadful to him, he could 
not believe it of any of them. Vol
demort only caught up with me 
toward the end, he didnt know 
which one I was in the beginning. 
If hed been in on the plan hed have known from the start I was 

the one with Hagrid. Voldemort caught up with yo
u? said Lupin sharply. What 
happened? How did you escape? 
Harry explained briefly how the De
ath Eaters pursuing them had 
seemed to recognize him as the 
true Harry, how they had aban-
doned the chase, how they must have summoned Voldemort, who 
had appeared just before he and 
Hagrid had reached the sanctuary 
of Tonkss parents. 
They recognized you? But how? What had you done? 
I . . . Harry tried to remember
; the whole journey seemed like 
a blur of panic and confusion. I 
saw Stan Shunpike. . . . You know, the bloke who was the conductor on 
the Knight Bus? And I tried to 
Disarm him instead of  well, he
 doesnt know what hes doing, 
does he? He must be Imperiused! Lupin looked aghast. 
Harry, the time for Disarming is past! These people are trying to 
capture and kill you! At least Stun 
if you arent prepared to kill! 
We were hundreds of feet up! Stan
s not himself, and if I Stunned 
him and hed fallen, hed have died the same as if Id used Avada 
Kedavra! Expelliarmus saved me 
from Voldemort two years ago, 
Harry added defiantly. Lupin was 
reminding him of the sneering  
 FALLEN WARRIOR  71  Hufflepuff Zacharias Smith, who had jeered at Harry for wanting to teach Dumbledores Army how to Disarm. 
Yes, Harry, said Lupin with painful restraint, and a great num-
ber of Death Eaters witnessed th
at happening! Forgive me, but it 
was a very unusual move then, un
der imminent threat of death. 
Repeating it tonight in front of Death Eaters who either witnessed 
or heard about the first occasion was close to suicidal! 
So you think I should have kill
ed Stan Shunpike? said Harry 
angrily. 
Of course not, said Lupin, b
ut the Death Eate
rs  frankly, 
most people!  would have expected you to attack back! Expelliar-
mus is a useful spell, Harry, but the 
Death Eaters seem to think it is 
your signature move, and I urge 
you not to let it become so! 
Lupin was making Harry feel idioti
c, and yet there was still a 
grain of defiance inside him. 
I wont blast people out of my way just because theyre there, 
said Harry. Thats Voldemorts job. 
Lupins retort was lost: Finally 
succeeding in squeezing through 
the door, Hagrid stagge
red to a chair and sat down; it collapsed 
beneath him. Ignoring his mingle
d oaths and apologies, Harry ad-
dressed Lupin again. Will George be okay? 
All Lupins frustration with Harry seemed to drain away at the 
question. 
I think so, although theres no 
chance of replacing his ear, not 
when its been cursed off  
There was a scuffling from outside. Lupin dived for the back door; 
Harry leapt over Hagrids legs
 and sprinted into the yard. 
 CHAPTER  FIVE  72  Two figures had appeared in the 
yard, and as Harry ran toward 
them he realized they were Herm
ione, now returning to her normal 
appearance, and Kingsley, both clutching a bent coat hanger. Hermi-
one flung herself into Harrys arms, 
but Kingsley showed no pleasure 
at the sight of any of them. Ov
er Hermiones shoulder Harry saw 
him raise his wand and point it at Lupins chest. 
The last words Albus Dumbledor
e spoke to the pair of us? 
Harry is the best hope we have. Trust him, said Lupin 
calmly. 
Kingsley turned his wand on Harry, but Lupin said, Its him, 
Ive checked! All right, all right! said King
sley, stowing his wand back be-
neath his cloak. But somebody be
trayed us! They knew, they knew 
it was tonight! 
So it seems, replied Lupin, but
 apparently they did not realize 
that there would be
 seven Harrys. 
Small comfort! snarled King
sley. Who else is back? 
Only Harry, Hagrid, George, and me. Hermione stifled a little moan behind her hand. What happened to you?
 Lupin asked Kingsley. 
Followed by five, injured two, 
mightve killed one, Kingsley 
reeled off, and we saw You-Know-W
ho as well, he joined the chase 
halfway through but vanished pre
tty quickly. Remus, he can  Fly, supplied Harry. I saw him too, he came after Hagrid and 
me. 
So thats why he left, to follow yo
u! said Kingsley. I couldnt un-
derstand why hed vanished. But 
what made him change targets? 
Harry behaved a little too kindly 
to Stan Shunpike, said Lupin. 
Stan? repeated Hermione. But I thought he was in Azkaban? 
FALLEN WARRIOR  73  Kingsley let out a mirthless laugh. 
Hermione, theres obviously be
en a mass breakout which the 
Ministry has hushed up. Travers
s hood fell off when I cursed him, 
hes supposed to be inside too. But what happened to you, Remus? 
Wheres George? 
He lost an ear, said Lupin. Lost an  ? repeated Hermione in a high voice. 

Snapes work, said Lupin. 
Snape
? shouted Harry. You didnt say  
He lost his hood during the chas
e. Sectumsempra was always a 
speciality of Snapes. I wish I co
uld say Id paid him back in kind, 
but it was all I could do to keep 
George on the broom after he was 
injured, he was losing so much blood. 
Silence fell between the four of them as they looked up at the sky. 
There was no sign of movement; th
e stars stared back, unblinking, 
indifferent, unobscured by flying friends. Where was Ron? Where 
were Fred and Mr. Weasley? Where were Bill, Fleur, Tonks, Mad-
Eye, and Mundungus? 
Harry, give us a hand! called 
Hagrid hoarsely from the door, in 
which he was stuck again. Glad of something to do, Harry pulled 

him free, then headed through th
e empty kitchen and back into 
the sitting room, where Mrs. Weasley and Ginny were still tending 
to George. Mrs. Weasley had staunched his bleeding now, and by 

the lamplight Harry saw a clean, ga
ping hole where Georges ear 
had been. 
How is he? Mrs. Weasley looked around and sa
id, I cant make it grow back, 
not when its been removed by Dark Magic. But it could have been 

so much worse. . . . Hes alive. CHAPTER  FIVE  74  Yeah, said Harry. Thank God. 
Did I hear someone else in
 the yard? Ginny asked. 
Hermione and Kingsley, said Harry. 
Thank goodness, Ginny whispered.
 They looked at each other; 
Harry wanted to hug her, hold on to
 her; he did not even care much 
that Mrs. Weasley was there, but b
efore he could act on the impulse 
there was a great crash from the kitchen. 
Ill prove who I am, Kingsley, afte
r Ive seen my son, now back 
off if you know whats good for you! Harry had never heard Mr. Weasley shout like that before. He 
burst into the living room, his bald
 patch gleaming with sweat, his 
spectacles askew, Fred right behind him, both pale but uninjured. 
Arthur! sobbed Mrs. Weasley. Oh thank goodness! How is he? Mr. Weasley dropped to his knees
 beside George. For the first 
time since Harry had known him, Fred
 seemed to be lost for words. 
He gaped over the back of the sofa at his twins wound as if he could 
not believe what he was seeing. 
Perhaps roused by the sound of Fred and their fathers arrival, 
George stirred. How do you feel, Georgie? whispered Mrs. Weasley. 
Georges fingers groped for the side of his head. Saintlike, he murmured. 
Whats wrong with him? croake
d Fred, looking terrified. Is 
his mind affected? 
Saintlike, repeated George, openi
ng his eyes and looking up at 
his brother. You 
see . . . Im holy. 
Holey, Fred, geddit? 
Mrs. Weasley sobbed harder than ever. Color flooded Freds pale 
face. FALLEN WARRIOR  75  Pathetic, he told George. Pathetic! With the whole wide world 
of ear-related humor be
fore you, you go for 
holey
? Ah well, said George, grinning at his tear-soaked mother. Youll 
be able to tell us apart now, anyway, Mum. 
He looked around. 
Hi, Harry  you ar
e Harry, right? Yeah, I am, said Harry, moving closer to the sofa. 

Well, at least we got you back okay, said George. Why arent 
Ron and Bill huddled round my sickbed? 
Theyre not back yet, George, said Mrs. Weasley. Georges grin 
faded.  Harry glanced at Ginny and motio
ned to her to accompany him 
back outside. As they walked th
rough the kitchen she said in a 
low voice, Ron and Tonks should be back by now. They didnt 
have a long journey; Auntie Muri
els not that far from here. 
Harry said nothing. He had been t
rying to keep fear at bay ever 
since reaching the Burrow, but no
w it enveloped him, seeming to 
crawl over his skin, throbbing in his
 chest, clogging his throat. As 
they walked down the back steps 
into the dark yard, Ginny took 
his hand. Kingsley was striding backward and 
forward, glancing up at the sky 
every time he turned. Harry was re
minded of Uncle Vernon pacing 
the living room a million years ago. Hagrid, Hermione, and Lupin 

stood shoulder to shoulder, gazing up
ward in silence. None of them 
looked around when Ha
rry and Ginny joined 
their silent vigil. The minutes stretched into what might as well have been years. 
The slightest breath of wind made
 them all jump and turn toward 
the whispering bush or tree in the hope that one of the missing 

Order members might leap un
scathed from its leaves  
CHAPTER  FIVE  76  And then a broom materialized dire
ctly above them and streaked 
toward the ground  
Its them! screamed Hermione. 
Tonks landed in a long skid 
that sent earth and pebbles 
everywhere. 
Remus! Tonks cried as she staggered off the broom into Lupins 
arms. His face was set and white: 
He seemed unable to speak. Ron 
tripped dazedly toward Harry and Hermione. 
Youre okay, he mumbled, be
fore Hermione flew at him and 
hugged him tightly. 
I thought  I thought  M all right, said Ron, patting
 her on the back. M fine. 
Ron was great, said Tonks warmly, relinquishing her hold on 
Lupin. Wonderful. Stunned one of
 the Death Eaters, straight to 
the head, and when youre aiming at
 a moving target from a flying 
broom  
You did? said Hermione, gazing 
up at Ron with her arms still 
around his neck. 
Always the tone of surprise, he 
said a little grumpily, breaking 
free. Are we the last back? 
No, said Ginny, were still wa
iting for Bill and Fleur and Mad-
Eye and Mundungus. Im going to tell Mum and Dad youre okay, 
Ron  She ran back inside. 
So what kept you? What happened? Lupin sounded almost 
angry at Tonks. 
Bellatrix, said Tonks. She want
s me quite as much as she wants 
Harry, Remus, she tried very hard to 
kill me. I just wish Id got her, 
I owe Bellatrix. But we definitely
 injured Rodolphus. . . . Then we 
FALLEN WARRIOR  77  got to Rons Auntie Muriels an
d wed missed our Portkey and she 
was fussing over us  
A muscle was jumping in Lupins jaw. He nodded, but seemed 
unable to say anything else. So what happened to you lot? 
Tonks asked, turning to Harry, 
Hermione, and Kingsley. 
They recounted the stories of thei
r own journeys, but all the time 
the continued absence of Bill, Fleur, Mad-Eye, and Mundungus 
seemed to lie upon them like a frost, its icy bite harder and harder 
to ignore. 
Im going to have to get back 
to Downing Street, I should have 
been there an hour ago, said King
sley finally, after a last sweeping 
gaze at the sky. Let me know when theyre back. 
Lupin nodded. With a wave to th
e others, Kingsley walked away 
into the darkness toward the ga
te. Harry thought he heard the 
faintest pop as Kingsley Disapparated just beyond the Burrows 
boundaries. 
Mr. and Mrs. Weasley came racing down the back steps, Ginny 
behind them. Both parents hugge
d Ron before turning to Lupin 
and Tonks. 
Thank you, said Mrs. We
asley, for our sons. 
Dont be silly, Molly, said Tonks at once. 
Hows George? asked Lupin. 
Whats wrong with him? piped up Ron. 
Hes lost  But the end of Mrs. Weasleys 
sentence was drowned in a gen-
eral outcry: A thestral had just so
ared into sight and landed a few 
feet from them. Bill and Fleur sl
id from its back, windswept but 
unhurt. CHAPTER  FIVE  78  Bill! Thank God, thank God  Mrs. Weasley ran forward, but the hug Bill bestowed upon her 
was perfunctory. Looking directly at
 his father, he said, Mad-Eyes 
dead. Nobody spoke, nobody moved. Harry felt as though something 
inside him was falling, falling through the earth, leaving him 
forever. We saw it, said Bill; Fleur nodd
ed, tear tracks glittering on 
her cheeks in the light from the kitchen window. It happened just 
after we broke out of the circle: 
Mad-Eye and Dung were close by 
us, they were heading north too.
 Voldemort  he can fly  went 
straight for them. Dung panicked
, I heard him cry out, Mad-Eye 
tried to stop him, but he Disapparated. Voldemorts curse hit Mad-
Eye full in the face, he fell ba
ckward off his broom and  there 
was nothing we could do, nothing, we had half a dozen of them on 

our own tail  Bills voice broke. 
Of course you couldnt have 
done anything, said Lupin. 
They all stood looking at each 
other. Harry could not quite com-
prehend it. Mad-Eye dead; it could 
not be. . . . Mad-Eye, so tough, 
so brave, the consum
mate survivor . . . At last it seemed to dawn on ever
yone, though nobody said it, that 
there was no point waiting in the ya
rd anymore, and in silence they 
followed Mr. and Mrs. Weasley back
 into the Burrow, and into the 
living room, where Fred and Ge
orge were laughing together. 
Whats wrong? said Fred, scanni
ng their faces as they entered. 
Whats happened? Whos  ? 
Mad-Eye, said Mr. Weasley. Dead. 

The twins grins turned to grimaces of shock. Nobody seemed 
FALLEN WARRIOR  79  to know what to do. Tonks was crying silently into a handkerchief: 
She had been close to Mad-Eye, Harry knew, his favorite and his 

protge at the Ministry of Magi
c. Hagrid, who had sat down on 
the floor in the corner where he ha
d most space, was dabbing at his 
eyes with his tableclo
th-sized handkerchief. 
Bill walked over to the sideboard 
and pulled out a bottle of fire-
whisky and some glasses. 
Here, he said, and with a wave of his wand he sent twelve full 
glasses soaring through the room to
 each of them, holding the thir-
teenth aloft. Mad-Eye. Mad-Eye, they a
ll said, and drank. 
Mad-Eye, echoed Hagrid, a 
little late, with a hiccup. The firewhisky seared Harrys thro
at. It seemed to burn feeling 
back into him, dispelling the nu
mbness and sense of unreality, fir-
ing him with something th
at was like courage. 
So Mundungus disappeared? said
 Lupin, who had drained his 
own glass in one. The atmosphere changed at once. Everybody looked tense, watch-
ing Lupin, both wanting him to 
go on, it seemed to Harry, and 
slightly afraid of wh
at they might hear. I know what youre thinking, said
 Bill, and I wond
ered that too, 
on the way back here, because they 
seemed to be expecting us, didnt 
they? But Mundungus cant have betrayed us. They didnt know there 

would be seven Harrys, that confuse
d them the moment we appeared, 
and in case youve forgotten, it
 was Mundungus who suggested that 
little bit of skullduggery. Why wouldnt
 he have told th
em the essential 
point? I think Dung panicked, its as 
simple as that. He didnt want to 
come in the first place, but Mad-
Eye made him, an
d You-Know-Who went straight for them. It was enough to make anyone panic. 
CHAPTER  FIVE  80  You-Know-Who acted exactly as
 Mad-Eye expected him to, 
sniffed Tonks. Mad-Eye said hed 
expect the real Ha
rry to be with 
the toughest, most skilled Aurors. He chased Mad-Eye first, and 
when Mundungus gave them away he
 switched to Kingsley. . . . 
Yes, and zat eez all very good, sn
apped Fleur, but still eet does 
not explain ow zey knew we were moving Arry tonight, does eet? 
Somebody must ave been careless. So
mebody let slip ze date to an 
outsider. It is ze only explanation for zem knowing ze date but not 
ze ole plan. 
She glared around at them all, tear
 tracks still etched on her beau-
tiful face, silently daring any of them to contradict her. Nobody did. 
The only sound to break the silence was that of Hagrid hiccuping 
from behind his handkerchief. Harry glanced at Hagrid, who had 
just risked his own life to save
 Harrys  Hagrid, whom he loved, 
whom he trusted, who had once be
en tricked into giving Voldemort 
crucial information in exchange
 for a dragons egg. . . . 
No, Harry said aloud, and they 
all looked at him, surprised: 
The firewhisky seemed to have amplified his voice. I mean . . . if 
somebody made a mistake, Harry went on, and let something slip, 
I know they didnt mean to do it. Its not their fault, he repeated, 

again a little louder than he would usually have spoken. Weve got 
to trust each other. I trust all of you, I dont think anyone in this 
room would ever sell me to Voldemort. 
More silence followed his words. 
They were all looking at him; 
Harry felt a little hot again, and 
drank some more firewhisky for 
something to do. As he drank, 
he thought of Mad-Eye. Mad-Eye 
had always been scathing about Du
mbledores willingness to trust 
people. 

 FALLEN WARRIOR  81  Well said, Harry, said Fred unexpectedly. 
Yeah, ear, ear, said George, wi
th half a glance at Fred, the cor-
ner of whose mouth twitched. 
Lupin was wearing an odd expression
 as he looked at Harry. It 
was close to pitying. 
You think Im a fool
? demanded Harry. 
No, I think youre like James,
 said Lupin, who would have 
regarded it as the height of di
shonor to mistrust his friends. 
Harry knew what Lupin was getting
 at: that his father had been 
betrayed by his friend, Peter Pettigr
ew. He felt irrationally angry. He 
wanted to argue, but Lupin had turned away from him, set down 
his glass upon a side table, and a
ddressed Bill, Theres work to do. 
I can ask Kingsley whether  
No, said Bill at once, 
Ill do it, Ill come. Where are you going? said
 Tonks and Fleur together. Mad-Eyes body, said Lupin.
 We need to recover it. 
Cant it  ? began Mrs. Weas
ley with an appealing look at 
Bill. Wait? said Bill. Not unless youd rather the Death Eaters took 
it? Nobody spoke. Lupin and Bill said good-bye and left. The rest of them now dropped in
to chairs, all except for Harry, 
who remained standing. The suddenness and completeness of death 

was with them like a presence. Ive got to go too, said Harry. 
Ten pairs of startled eyes looked at him. 
Dont be silly, Harry, said Mrs. Weasley. What are you talk-
ing about? 

 CHAPTER  FIVE  82  I cant stay here. 
He rubbed his forehead; it was pr
ickling again, it had not hurt 
like this for more than a year. 
Youre all in danger while 
Im here. I dont want  
But dont be so silly! said Mr
s. Weasley. The whole point of 
tonight was to get you here safely, and thank goodness it worked. 
And Fleurs agreed to get married he
re rather than in France, weve 
arranged everything so that we ca
n all stay together and look after 
you  She did not understand; she was making him feel worse, not 
better. If Voldemort finds out Im here  
But why should he? asked Mrs. Weasley. 
There are a dozen places you mi
ght be now, Harry, said Mr. 
Weasley. Hes got no way of knowing which safe house youre 

in. 
Its not me Im worried for! said Harry. 
We know that, said Mr. Weasle
y quietly, but it would make 
our efforts tonight seem rath
er pointless if you left. 
Yer not goin anywhere, growled Hagrid. Blimey, Harry, after 
all we wen through ter get you here? 
Yeah, what about my bleeding 
ear? said George, hoisting him-
self up on his cushions. 
I know that  
Mad-Eye wouldnt want  
I KNOW! Harry bellowed. 
He felt beleaguered and blackmaile
d: Did they think he did not 
know what they had done for him, 
didnt they understand that it 
was for precisely that reason that he
 wanted to go now, before they 
FALLEN WARRIOR  83  had to suffer any more on his behalf? There was a long and awkward 
silence in which his scar continued to prickle and throb, and which 

was broken at last by Mrs. Weasley. 
Wheres Hedwig, Harry? she said coaxingly. We can put her 
up with Pigwidgeon and gi
ve her something to eat. His insides clenched like a fist. 
He could not tell her the truth. 
He drank the last of his fire
whisky to avoid answering. Wait till it gets out 
yeh did it again, Harry, said Hagrid. Es-
caped him, fought him off when 
he was right on top of yeh! 
It wasnt me, said Harry fla
tly. It was my wand. My wand 
acted of its own accord. After a few moments, Hermione sa
id gently, But thats impos-
sible, Harry. You mean that you did magic without meaning to; you reacted instinctively. 
No, said Harry. The bike was fa
lling, I couldnt have told you 
where Voldemort was, but my wand
 spun in my hand and found 
him and shot a spell at him, and it 
wasnt even a spell I recognized. 
Ive never made gold flames appear before. 
Often, said Mr. Weasley, when youre in a pressured situation 
you can produce magic you never 
dreamed of. Small children often find, before theyre trained  
It wasnt like that, said Har
ry through gritted teeth. His scar 
was burning: He felt angry and fr
ustrated; he hated the idea that 
they were all imagining him to ha
ve power to match Voldemorts. 
No one said anything. He knew that they did not believe him. 
Now that he came to think of it, 
he had never heard of a wand per-
forming magic on its own before. 
His scar seared with pain; it was al
l he could do not 
to moan aloud. 
Muttering about fresh air, he set 
down his glass and left the room. 
CHAPTER  FIVE  84  As he crossed the dark yard, the gr
eat skeletal thestral looked up, 
rustled its enormous batlike wings, then resumed its grazing. Harry 

stopped at the gate into
 the garden, staring out at its overgrown plants, 
rubbing his pounding forehead 
and thinking of Dumbledore. Dumbledore would have believed
 him, he knew it. Dumbledore 
would have known how and why 
Harrys wand had acted indepen-
dently, because Dumbledore always 
had the answers; he had known 
about wands, had explained to Ha
rry the strange connection that 
existed between his wand and Voldemorts. . . . But Dumbledore, 
like Mad-Eye, like Sirius, like his parents, like his poor owl, all were 

gone where Harry could never talk to
 them again. He
 felt a burning 
in his throat that had nothing to do wi
th firewhisky . . . And then, out of nowhere, the pa
in in his scar peaked. As he 
clutched his forehead and closed 
his eyes, a voice screamed inside 
his head. 
You told me the problem would be solved by using anothers 
wand
! And into his mind burst the vision of an emaciated old man lying 
in rags upon a stone floor, scream
ing, a horrible, drawn-out scream, 
a scream of unendu
rable agony. . . . 
No! No! I beg you, 
I beg you. . . . You lied to Lord Vo
ldemort, Ollivander! I did not. . . . I swear I did not. . . . 

You sought to help Potter
, to help him escape me! I swear I did not. . . . I be
lieved a different wand would 
work. . . . Explain, then, what happened. 
Luciuss wand is destroyed! 
I cannot understand. . . . The connection . . . exists only . . . be-
tween your two wands. . . . 
FALLEN WARRIOR  85  Lies! Please . . . I beg you. . . . 

And Harry saw the white hand raise its wand and felt Voldemorts 
surge of vicious anger, saw the frai
l old man on the 
floor writhe in 
agony  Harry? It was over as quic
kly as it had come: 
Harry stood shaking in the darkness, clutching the gate into the gard
en, his heart racing, 
his scar still tingling. It was severa
l moments before he realized that 
Ron and Hermione we
re at his side. 
Harry, come back in the house, Hermione whispered. You 
arent still thinki
ng of leaving? 
Yeah, youve got to stay, mate
, said Ron, thumping Harry on 
the back. Are you all right? 
Hermione asked, close enough now to look 
into Harrys face. You look awful! 
Well, said Harry shakily, I pr
obably look better than Olli-
vander. . . . 
When he had finished telling 
them what he had seen, Ron 
looked appalled, but Hermione downright terrified. 
But it was supposed to have stopped! Your scar  it wasnt sup-
posed to do this anymore! You mu
stnt let that connection open up 
again  Dumbledore wanted you to close your mind! 
When he did not reply,
 she gripped his arm. Harry, hes taking over the Ministry and the newspapers and half 
the Wizarding world! Dont let him inside your head too! 
C H A P T E R  S I X   86  THE GHOUL IN PAJAMAS 
   he shock of losing Mad-Eye hung over the house in the days 
that followed; Harry kept expect
ing to see him stumping in 
through the back door like the ot
her Order members, who passed 
in and out to relay news. Harry fel
t that nothing but action would 
assuage his feelings of guilt and grie
f and that he ought to set out on 
his mission to find and destroy 
Horcruxes as soon as possible. 
Well, you cant do anything 
about the  Ron mouthed the 
word Horcruxes  till youre seventeen. Youve still got the Trace 
on you. And we can plan here as well as anywhere, cant we? Or, 
he dropped his voice to a whisper,
 dyou reckon you already know 
where the You-Know-Whats are? 
No, Harry admitted. 
I think Hermiones been doing a bit 
of research, said Ron. She 
said she was saving it for when you got here. 
They were sitting at the breakfast table; Mr. Weasley and Bill had  
 T THE  GHOUL  IN PAJAMAS  87  just left for work. Mrs. Weasley had gone upstairs to wake Hermione 
and Ginny, while Fleur had dr
ifted off to take a bath. The Tracell break on the thirty
-first, said Harry. That means 
I only need to stay here four days. Then I can  
Five days, Ron corrected him firm
ly. Weve got to stay for the 
wedding. Theyll kill us if we miss it. Harry understood they to mean Fleur and Mrs. Weasley. Its one extra day, said Ron, when Harry looked mutinous. 
Dont they realize how important  ? 
Course they dont, said Ron. 
They havent got a clue. And now 
you mention it, I wanted to 
talk to you about that. 
Ron glanced toward the door into 
the hall to check that Mrs. 
Weasley was not re
turning yet, then
 leaned in closer to Harry. 
Mums been trying to get it out of Hermione and me. What 
were off to do. Shell try you 
next, so brace yourself. Dad and 
Lupinve both asked as well, but when we said Dumbledore told you 
not to tell anyone except us, th
ey dropped it. Not Mum, though. 
Shes determined. 
Rons prediction came true within
 hours. Shortly before lunch, 
Mrs. Weasley detached Harry from th
e others by asking him to help identify a lone mans sock that 
she thought might 
have come out 
of his rucksack. Once she had him cornered in the tiny scullery off 
the kitchen, she started. 
Ron and Hermione seem to think 
that the three of you are drop-
ping out of Hogwarts, she be
gan in a light, casual tone. 
Oh, said Harry. Well, yeah. We are. 
The mangle turned of its own accord in a corner, wringing out 
what looked like one of Mr. Weasleys vests. 

 CHAPTER  SIX  88  May I ask 
why you are abandoning your education? said Mrs. 
Weasley. Well, Dumbledore left me . . 
. stuff to do, mumbled Harry. 
Ron and Hermione know about it, and they want to come too. 
What sort of stuff? 
Im sorry, I cant  
Well, frankly, I think Arthur 
and I have a right to know, and 
Im sure Mr. and Mrs. Granger would agree! said Mrs. Weasley. 
Harry had been afraid of the conce
rned parent attack. He forced 
himself to look directly into her 
eyes, noticing as he did so that 
they were precisely the same shad
e of brown as Ginnys. This did 
not help. Dumbledore didnt want anyone el
se to know, Mrs. Weasley. Im 
sorry. Ron and Hermione dont have
 to come, its their choice  
I dont see that 
you have to go either! sh
e snapped, dropping all 
pretense now. Youre barely of age,
 any of you! Its utter nonsense, 
if Dumbledore needed work doing, 
he had the whole Order at his 
command! Harry, you must have 
misunderstood him. Probably he 
was telling you something he 
wanted
 done, and you took it to mean 
that he wanted you  
I didnt misunderstand, said Ha
rry flatly. Its got to be me. 
He handed her back the single sock he was supposed to be iden-
tifying, which was 
patterned with golden bulrushes. 
And thats not mine, I dont 
support Puddlemere United. 
Oh, of course not, said Mrs. 
Weasley with a sudden and rather 
unnerving return to her casual tone
. I should have realized. Well, 
Harry, while weve still got you he
re, you wont mind helping with 
the preparations for Bill and Fleur
s wedding, will you? Theres still 
so much to do. THE  GHOUL  IN PAJAMAS  89  No  I  of course not, said 
Harry, disconcerted by this sud-
den change of subject. Sweet of you, she replied, an
d she smiled as she left the 
scullery. From that moment on, Mrs. We
asley kept Harry, Ron, and Her-
mione so busy with preparations for the wedding that they hardly 
had any time to think. The kindest explanation of this behavior 

would have been that Mrs. Weasle
y wanted to distract them all 
from thoughts of Mad-Eye and the 
terrors of their recent journey. 
After two days of nonstop cutlery 
cleaning, of color-matching fa-
vors, ribbons, and flowers, of de-gnoming the garden and helping 
Mrs. Weasley cook vast batches of
 canaps, however, Harry started 
to suspect her of a different moti
ve. All the jobs she handed out 
seemed to keep him, Ron, and He
rmione away from one another; 
he had not had a chance
 to speak to the two of them alone since 
the first night, when he had told
 them about Voldemort torturing 
Ollivander. I think Mum thinks that if she 
can stop the three of you getting 
together and planning, shell be 
able to delay you leaving, Ginny 
told Harry in an undertone, as they
 laid the table for dinner on the 
third night of his stay. And then what does she thinks going to happen? Harry mut-
tered. Someone else might kill 
off Voldemort while shes holding 
us here making vol-au-vents? 
He had spoken without thinking, and saw Ginnys face whiten. 
So its true? she said. Thats what youre trying to do? 
I  not  I was joking,
 said Harry evasively. 
They stared at each other, and there was something more than 
shock in Ginnys expression. Su
ddenly Harry became aware that 
CHAPTER  SIX  90  this was the first time that he 
had been alone with her since those 
stolen hours in secluded corners of the Hogwarts grounds. He was 

sure she was remembering them too.
 Both of them jumped as the 
door opened, and Mr. Weasley, Kingsley, and Bill walked in. They were often joined by othe
r Order members for dinner now, 
because the Burrow had replaced 
number twelve, Grimmauld Place 
as the headquarters. Mr. Weasley ha
d explained that after the death 
of Dumbledore, their Secret-Keeper
, each of the people to whom 
Dumbledore had confided Grimmaul
d Places location had become 
a Secret-Keeper in turn. 
And as there are around twenty 
of us, that greatly dilutes the 
power of the Fidelius Charm. Tw
enty times as many opportunities 
for the Death Eaters to get the se
cret out of somebody. We cant 
expect it to hold much longer. 
But surely Snape will have told the Death Eaters the address by 
now? asked Harry. 
Well, Mad-Eye set up a couple of curses against Snape in case 
he turns up there again. We hope 
theyll be strong enough both to 
keep him out and to bind his tongue
 if he tries to talk about the 
place, but we cant be sure. It would have been insane to keep us-

ing the place as headquarters now 
that its protecti
on has become 
so shaky. 
The kitchen was so crowded that 
evening it was difficult to ma-
neuver knives and forks. Harry found himself crammed beside 
Ginny; the unsaid things that ha
d just passed between them made 
him wish they had been separated 
by a few more people. He was 
trying so hard to avoid brushing
 her arm he could barely cut his 
chicken. 
No news about Mad-Eye? Harry asked Bill. THE  GHOUL  IN PAJAMAS  91  Nothing, replied Bill. 
They had not been able to ho
ld a funeral for Moody, because 
Bill and Lupin had failed to recove
r his body. It had been difficult 
to know where he might have fallen, given the darkness and the 
confusion of the battle. 
The Daily Prophet hasnt said a word about him dying or about 
finding the body, Bill went on. B
ut that doesnt mean much. Its 
keeping a lot quiet these days. 
And they still havent called a hearing about all the underage 
magic I used escaping the Death 
Eaters? Harry called across the 
table to Mr. Weasley,
 who shook his head. Because they know I had no choi
ce or because they dont want 
me to tell the world Voldemort attacked me? The latter, I think. Scrimgeour 
doesnt want to 
admit that You-
Know-Who is as powerful as he is, nor that Azkabans seen a mass 

breakout. 
Yeah, why tell the public the tr
uth? said Harry, clenching his 
knife so tightly that the faint scar
s on the back of his right hand 
stood out, white against his skin: I must not tell lies. Isnt anyone at the Ministry prep
ared to stand up to him? asked 
Ron angrily. Of course, Ron, but people are 
terrified, Mr. Weasley replied, 
terrified that they will be next to
 disappear, their children the next 
to be attacked! There are nasty ru
mors going around; I for one dont 
believe the Muggle Studies professor at Hogwarts resigned. She 
hasnt been seen for weeks now.
 Meanwhile Scrimgeour remains 
shut up in his office 
all day: I just hope he
s working on a plan. There was a pause in which Mrs.
 Weasley magicked the empty 
plates onto the work surf
ace and served apple tart. 
CHAPTER  SIX  92  We must decide ow you will be disguised, Arry, said Fleur, 
once everyone had pudding. For ze
 wedding, she added, when he 
looked confused. Of course, none of our guests are Death Eaters, 
but we cannot guarantee zat zey wi
ll not let someth
ing slip after 
zey ave ad champagne. 
From this, Harry gathered that she still suspected Hagrid. 
Yes, good point, said Mrs. Weas
ley from the top of the table, 
where she sat, spectacles perched on the end of her nose, scan-
ning an immense list of jobs that
 she had scribbled on a very long 
piece of parchment. Now, Ron, have you cleaned out your room 

yet? Why? exclaimed Ron, slamming
 his spoon down and glaring 
at his mother. Why does my room
 have to be cleaned out? Harry 
and I are fine with 
it the way it is! 
We are holding your brothers wedding here in a few days time, 
young man  And are they getting married in
 my bedroom? asked Ron furi-
ously. No! So why in the name
 of Merlins 
saggy left  
Dont talk to your mother like that, said Mr. Weasley firmly. 
And do as youre told. 
Ron scowled at both his parents,
 then picked up his spoon and 
attacked the last few mouthfuls of his apple tart. 
I can help, some of its my mess, Harry told Ron, but Mrs. 
Weasley cut across him. 
No, Harry, dear, Id much rath
er you helped Arthur muck out 
the chickens, and Hermione, Id be ever so grateful if youd change 
the sheets for Monsieur and Madame Delacour; you know theyre 
arriving at eleven tomorrow morning. 
But as it turned out, there was 
very little to do for the chickens. 
THE  GHOUL  IN PAJAMAS  93  Theres no need to, er, mention 
it to Molly, Mr. Weasley told 
Harry, blocking his access to the c
oop, but, er, Ted Tonks sent me 
most of what was left of Siriuss bike and, er, Im hiding  thats 
to say, keeping  it in here. Fant
astic stuff: Theres an exhaust gas-
kin, as I believe its called, the 
most magnificent battery, and itll 
be a great opportunity 
to find out how brakes work. Im going to 
try and put it all back together
 again when Mollys not  I mean, 
when Ive got time. 
When they returned to the house,
 Mrs. Weasley was nowhere to 
be seen, so Harry slipped upst
airs to Rons attic bedroom. Im doing it, Im doing  ! Oh, its you, said Ron in relief, as 
Harry entered the room. Ron lay ba
ck down on the bed, which he 
had evidently just vacated. The r
oom was just as messy as it had 
been all week; the only change wa
s that Hermione was now sitting 
in the far corner, her fluffy ging
er cat, Crookshanks, at her feet, 
sorting books, some of which Ha
rry recognized as his own, into 
two enormous piles. Hi, Harry, she said, as he sat down on his camp bed. 
And how did you manage to get away? 
Oh, Rons mum forgot that she 
asked Ginny and me to change 
the sheets yesterday, said Hermione. She threw 
Numerology and 
Grammatica
 onto one pile and 
The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts 
onto the other. We were just talking about Mad-
Eye, Ron told Harry. I reckon 
he might have survived. 
But Bill saw him hit by the 
Killing Curse, said Harry. 
Yeah, but Bill was under attack too, said Ron. How can he be 
sure what he saw? 
Even if the Killing Curse miss
ed, Mad-Eye still fell about a CHAPTER  SIX  94  thousand feet, said 
Hermione, now weighing 
Quidditch Teams of 
Britain and Ireland
 in her hand. He could have used 
a Shield Charm  Fleur said his wand was blasted 
out of his hand, said Harry. 
Well, all right, if yo
u want him to be dead
, said Ron grumpily, 
punching his pillow into 
a more comfortable shape. 
Of course we dont want him to 
be dead! said Hermione, looking 
shocked. Its dreadful that hes dead! But were being realistic! 
For the first time, Harry imagined Mad-Eyes body, broken as 
Dumbledores had been, yet with that
 one eye still whizzing in its 
socket. He felt a stab of revulsio
n mixed with a bizarre desire to 
laugh. The Death Eaters probably tidied up after themselves, thats why 
no ones found him, said Ron wisely. 
Yeah, said Harry. Like Barty Crouch, turned into a bone and 
buried in Hagrids front garden. 
They probably transfigured Moody 
and stuffed him  
Dont! squealed Hermione. Star
tled, Harry looked over just 
in time to see her burst into tears over her copy of 
Spellmans 
Syllabary. Oh no, said Harry, struggling 
to get up from the old camp 
bed. Hermione, I wasnt trying to upset  
But with a great creaking of ru
sty bedsprings, Ron bounded off the bed and got there first. One 
arm around Hermione, he fished 
in his jeans pocket and withdrew
 a revolting-looking handkerchief 
that he had used to clean out th
e oven earlier. Hastily pulling out 
his wand, he pointed it 
at the rag and said, Tergeo. The wand siphoned off most of the grease. Looking rather pleased  
 THE  GHOUL  IN PAJAMAS  95  with himself, Ron handed the sl
ightly smoking handkerchief to 
Hermione. 
Oh . . . thanks, Ron. . . . Im sorry. . . . She blew her nose and 
hiccuped. Its just so awf-ful, isnt it? R-right after Dumbledore . . . 
I j-just n-never imagined Mad-Eye 
dying, somehow, he seemed so 
tough! 
Yeah, I know, said Ron, giving
 her a squeeze. But you know 
what hed say to us if he was here? C-constant vigilance, said
 Hermione, mopping her eyes. 
Thats right, said Ron, nodding
. Hed tell us to learn from 
what happened to him. And what Ive learned is not to trust that 
cowardly little squit, Mundungus. 
Hermione gave a shaky laugh and 
leaned forward to pick up two 
more books. A second later, Ron 
had snatched his arm back from 
around her shoulders; she had dropped 
The Monster Book of Monsters
 on his foot. The book 
had broken free from it
s restraining belt and snapped viciously at Rons ankle. 
Im sorry, Im sorry! Hermione
 cried as Harry wrenched the 
book from Rons leg and retied it shut. 
What are you doing with all th
ose books anyway? Ron asked, 
limping back to his bed. 
Just trying to decide which ones 
to take with us, said Hermione. 
When were looking for the Horcruxes. 
Oh, of course, said Ron, cla
pping a hand to his forehead. I 
forgot well be hunting down Vo
ldemort in a mobile library. 
Ha ha, said Hermione, looking down at 
Spellmans Syllabary.
 I 
wonder . . . will we need to translat
e runes? Its possible. . . . I think 
wed better take it, to be safe. 

 CHAPTER  SIX  96  She dropped the syllabary onto the larger of the two piles and 
picked up 
Hogwarts, A History.
 Listen, said Harry. 
He had sat up straight. Ron and 
Hermione looked at him with 
similar mixtures of re
signation and defiance. I know you said after Dumbledor
es funeral that you wanted to 
come with me, Harry began. 
Here he goes, Ron said to
 Hermione, rolli
ng his eyes. 
As we knew he would, she sighed, turning back to the books. 
You know, I think I 
will take 
Hogwarts, A History.
 Even if were 
not going back there, I 
dont think Id feel right if I didnt have it 
with  Listen! said Harry again. 
No, Harry, 
you listen, said Hermione. Were coming with you. 
That was decided months ago  years, really. 
But  
Shut up, Ron advised him. 
 are you sure youve thought 
this through? Harry persisted. Lets see, said Hermione, slamming 
Travels with Trolls
 onto 
the discarded pile with a rather 
fierce look. Ive been packing for 
days, so were ready to leave at 
a moments notice, which for your 
information has included doing some
 pretty difficult magic, not to 
mention smuggling Mad-Eyes whole stock of Polyjuice Potion right 
under Rons mums nose. 
Ive also modified my parents
 memories so that theyre con-
vinced theyre really called Wendell and Monica Wilkins, and that 
their lifes ambition is to move 
to Australia, which they have now 
done. Thats to make it more difficult for Voldemort to track them  

 THE  GHOUL  IN PAJAMAS  97  down and interrogate them about 
me  or you, because unfortu-
nately, Ive told them quite a bit about you. 
Assuming I survive our hunt for the Horcruxes, Ill find Mum 
and Dad and lift the enchantment. 
If I dont  well, I think Ive 
cast a good enough charm to keep
 them safe and happy. Wendell 
and Monica Wilkins dont know th
at theyve got a daughter, you 
see. Hermiones eyes were swimming 
with tears again. Ron got back 
off the bed, put his arm around her once more, and frowned at 
Harry as though reproaching him fo
r lack of tact. Harry could not 
think of anything to say, not leas
t because it was highly unusual for 
Ron to be teaching anyone else tact. 
I  Hermione, Im sorry  I didnt  
Didnt realize that Ron and I know perfectly well what might 
happen if we come with you? Well, we do. Ron, show Harry what 

youve done. Nah, hes just eaten, said Ron. 
Go on, he needs to know! Oh, all right. Harry, come here. 
For the second time Ron withdrew his arm from around Hermi-
one and stumped over to the door. Cmon. 
Why? Harry asked, following Ro
n out of the room onto the 
tiny landing. 
Descendo,
 muttered Ron, pointing his 
wand at the low ceiling. A 
hatch opened right over their heads and a ladder slid down to their 
feet. A horrible, half-sucking, half-moaning sound came out of the 
square hole, along with an unpl
easant smell like open drains.  CHAPTER  SIX  98  Thats your ghoul, isnt it? as
ked Harry, who had never actually 
met the creature that sometimes disrupted the nightly silence. Yeah, it is, said Ron, climbi
ng the ladder. Come and have a 
look at him. 
Harry followed Ron up the few short steps into the tiny attic 
space. His head and shoulders were
 in the room before he caught 
sight of the creature curled up a few
 feet from him, 
fast asleep in 
the gloom with its large mouth wide open. But it . . . it looks . . . do 
ghouls normally wear pajamas? 
No, said Ron. Nor have they usually got red hair or that num-
ber of pustules. Harry contemplated the thing, slig
htly revolted. It was human in 
shape and size, and was wearing what, now that Harrys eyes became 
used to the darkness, was clearly an
 old pair of Rons pajamas. He 
was also sure that ghouls were generally rather slimy and bald, rather 

than distinctly hairy and covered in angry purple blisters. 
Hes me, see? said Ron. 
No, said Harry. I dont. 
Ill explain it back in my room, the smells getting to me, said 
Ron. They climbed back down the 
ladder, which Ron returned to 
the ceiling, and rejoined Hermio
ne, who was still sorting books. 
Once weve left, the ghouls going to come and live down here in 
my room, said Ron. I think hes 
really looking forw
ard to it  well, 
its hard to tell, because all he 
can do is moan and drool  but he 
nods a lot when you mention it. Anyw
ay, hes going to be me with 
spattergroit. Good, eh? Harry merely looked
 his confusion. 
It is! said Ron, clearly frustrated that Harry had not grasped 
the brilliance of the plan. Look, when we three dont turn up at 
THE  GHOUL  IN PAJAMAS  99  Hogwarts again, everyones going 
to think Hermione and I must be 
with you, right? Which means the De
ath Eaters will go straight for 
our families to see if
 theyve got informatio
n on where you are. 
But hopefully itll look like Ive gone away with Mum and Dad; 
a lot of Muggle-borns are talking about going into hiding at the 
moment, said Hermione. 
We cant hide my whole family, itll look too fishy and they cant 
all leave their jobs, said Ron. So were going to put out the story 
that Im seriously ill with spattergroit, which is why I cant go back 
to school. If anyone comes calling 
to investigate, Mum or Dad can 
show them the ghoul in my bed, co
vered in pustules. Spattergroits 
really contagious, so theyre not go
ing to want to go near him. It 
wont matter that he cant say anything, either, because apparently 
you cant once the fungus ha
s spread to your uvula. 
And your mum and dad are in 
on this plan? asked Harry. 
Dad is. He helped Fred and George transform the ghoul. 
Mum . . . well, youve seen what sh
es like. She wont accept were 
going till weve gone. 
There was silence in the room, br
oken only by gentle thuds as 
Hermione continued to throw books onto one pile or the other. 

Ron sat watching her, and Harry looked from one to the other, 
unable to say anything. The meas
ures they had taken to protect 
their families made him realize, more than anything else could 

have done, that they really were going to come with him and that 
they knew exactly how dangerous th
at would be. He wanted to tell 
them what that meant to him, but 
he simply could not find words 
important enough. 
Through the silence came the mu
ffled sounds of Mrs. Weasley 
shouting from four floors below. 
CHAPTER  SIX  100  Ginnys probably left a speck of
 dust on a poxy napkin ring, 
said Ron. I dunno why the Delaco
urs have got to come two days 
before the wedding. 
Fleurs sisters a bridesmaid, she n
eeds to be here for the rehearsal, 
and shes too young to come on 
her own, said Hermione, as she 
pored indecisively over 
Break with a Banshee.
 Well, guests arent going to help Mums stress levels, said 
Ron. What we really need to decide, said Hermione, tossing 
Defensive 
Magical Theory
 into the bin without a se
cond glance and picking 
up An Appraisal of Magical Education in Europe,
 is where were 
going after we leave here. I know you said you wanted to go to 
Godrics Hollow first, Harry, and I understand why, but . . . well . . . 
shouldnt we make the Horcruxes our priority? 
If we knew where any of the Horcruxes were, Id agree with you, 
said Harry, who did not believe that
 Hermione really understood his 
desire to return to Godrics Holl
ow. His parents graves were only 
part of the attraction: He had a st
rong, though inexplicable, feeling 
that the place held answers for him.
 Perhaps it was simply because it 
was there that he had survived Vo
ldemorts Killing Curse; now that 
he was facing the challenge of re
peating the feat, Harry was drawn 
to the place where it had happ
ened, wanting to understand. 
Dont you think ther
es a possibility that
 Voldemorts keeping 
a watch on Godrics Hollow? He
rmione asked. He might expect 
you to go back and visit your parent
s graves once youre free to go 
wherever you like? 
This had not occurred to Harry. While he struggled to find a 
counterargument, Ron spoke up, ev
idently following his own train 
of thought. 
THE  GHOUL  IN PAJAMAS  101  This R.A.B. person, he said. 
You know, the one who stole the 
real locket? 
Hermione nodded. He said in his note he was go
ing to destroy it, didnt he? 
Harry dragged his rucksack toward
 him and pulled out the fake 
Horcrux in which R.A.B.s note was still folded. 
I have stolen the real Horcrux and 
intend to destroy it as soon as 
I can,
 Harry read out. 
Well, what if he 
did finish it off? said Ron. 
Or she, interposed Hermione. 

Whichever, said Ron, itd 
be one less for us to do! 
Yes, but were still going to have to try and trace the real 
locket, arent we? said Hermione, 
to find out whether or not its 
destroyed. 
And once we get hold of it, how 
do you destroy a Horcrux? 
asked Ron. 
Well, said Hermione, Ive been researching that. 
How? asked Harry. I didnt think there were any books on 
Horcruxes in the library? 
There werent, said Hermione
, who had turned pink. Dumble-
dore removed them all, but he  he didnt destroy them. 
Ron sat up straight, wide-eyed. 
How in the name of Merlins 
pants have you managed to get 
your hands on those Horcrux books? 
It  it wasnt stealing! said
 Hermione, looking from Harry to 
Ron with a kind of desperation. T
hey were still library books, even 
if Dumbledore had taken them off the shelves. Anyway, if he 
really didnt want anyone to get at them
, Im sure he would have made it 
much harder to  
CHAPTER  SIX  102  Get to the point! said Ron. 
Well . . . it was easy,
 said Hermione in a small voice. I just did a 
Summoning Charm. You know  Accio. And  they zoomed out 
of Dumbledores study window right into the girls dormitory. 
But when did you do this? Ha
rry asked, regarding Hermione 
with a mixture of admira
tion and incredulity. Just after his  Dumbledores 
 funeral, said Hermione in 
an even smaller voice. Right after we agreed wed leave school 
and go and look for the Horcruxes.
 When I went back upstairs to 
get my things it  it just occurre
d to me that the more we knew 
about them, the better it would be 
. . . and I was alone in there . . . 
so I tried . . . and it worked. They
 flew straight in through the open 
window and I  I packed them. She swallowed and then said impl
oringly, I cant believe Dum-
bledore would have been angry, its not as though were going to use 

the information to make
 a Horcrux, is it? 
Can you hear us complaining? said Ron. Where are these 
books anyway? 
Hermione rummaged for a mome
nt and then extracted from 
the pile a large volume, bound in faded black leather. She looked 

a little nauseated and held it as gi
ngerly as if it were something re-
cently dead. 
This is the one that gives explic
it instructions on how to make 
a Horcrux. Secrets of the Darkest Art
  its a horrible book, really 
awful, full of evil magic. I wonder when Dumbledore removed it 
from the library. . . . If he didnt do it until he was headmaster, I bet Voldemort got all the instruct
ion he needed from here. 
Why did he have to ask Slughorn how to make a Horcrux, then, 
if hed already read that? asked Ron. THE  GHOUL  IN PAJAMAS  103  He only approached Slughorn to
 find out what would happen if 
you split your soul into seven, 
said Harry. Dumbledore was sure 
Riddle already knew how to make 
a Horcrux by the time he asked 
Slughorn about them. I think you
re right, Hermione, that could 
easily have been where 
he got the information. 
And the more Ive read about th
em, said Hermione, the more 
horrible they seem, and the less I ca
n believe that he actually made 
six. It warns in this book how un
stable you make th
e rest of your 
soul by ripping it, and thats 
just by making one Horcrux! 
Harry remembered what Dumbledo
re had said about Voldemort 
moving beyond usual evil. 
Isnt there any way of putting yourself back together? Ron 
asked. 
Yes, said Hermione with a hollow smile, but it would be ex-
cruciatingly painful. Why? How do you do it? asked Harry. 
Remorse, said Hermione. Youve 
got to really feel what youve 
done. Theres a footnote. Apparently 
the pain of it can destroy you. 
I cant see Voldemor
t attempting it somehow, can you? 
No, said Ron, before Harry co
uld answer. So does it say how 
to destroy Horcruxes in that book? 
Yes, said Hermione, now turning 
the fragile pages as if examin-
ing rotting entrails, because it wa
rns Dark wizards how strong they 
have to make the enchantments on them. From all that Ive read, 
what Harry did to Riddles diary wa
s one of the few really foolproof 
ways of destroying a Horcrux. 
What, stabbing it with a basilisk fang? asked Harry. 
Oh well, lucky weve got such a larg
e supply of basilisk fangs, then, 
said Ron. I was wondering what we were going to do with them. 
CHAPTER  SIX  104  It doesnt have to be a basilisk
 fang, said Hermione patiently. 
It has to be something so destru
ctive that the Horcrux cant re-
pair itself. Basilisk venom only ha
s one antidote, and its incredibly 
rare  
 phoenix tears, said Harry, nodding. 
Exactly, said Hermione. Our problem is that there are very few 
substances as destructive as basili
sk venom, and theyre all danger-
ous to carry around with you. Thats a problem were going to have 
to solve, though, because ripping, smashing, or crushing a Horcrux 
wont do the trick. Youve got to put it beyond magical repair. 
But even if we wreck the thing it
 lives in, said Ron, why cant 
the bit of soul in it just go and live in something else? 
Because a Horcrux is the complete opposite of a human being. 
Seeing that Harry and Ron looked
 thoroughly confused, Hermi-
one hurried on, Look, if I picked up a sword right now, Ron, and 

ran you through with it, I wouldn
t damage your soul at all. 
Which would be a real comfort 
to me, Im sure, said Ron. 
Harry laughed. 
It should be, actually! But my point is that whatever happens 
to your body, your soul will su
rvive, untouched, said Hermione. 
But its the other way round with 
a Horcrux. The fragment of soul 
inside it depends on its container
, its enchanted body, for survival. It cant exist without it. 
That diary sort of died when I stabbed it, said Harry, remem-
bering ink pouring like blood from the punctured pages, and the 
screams of the piece of Voldem
orts soul as it vanished. 
And once the diary was properly
 destroyed, the bit of soul 
trapped in it could no longer exis
t. Ginny tried to get rid of the  
 THE  GHOUL  IN PAJAMAS  105  diary before you did, flushing it 
away, but obviously it came back 
good as new. Hang on, said Ron, frowning. The bit of soul in that diary was 
possessing Ginny, wasnt it
? How does that work, then? While the magical container is still intact, the bit of soul inside 
it can flit in and out of someone if
 they get too close to the object. I 
dont mean holding it for too long, its nothing to do with touching 

it, she added before Ron could sp
eak. I mean close emotionally. 
Ginny poured her heart out into that
 diary, she made herself incred-ibly vulnerable. Youre in trouble if
 you get too fond of or dependent 
on the Horcrux. I wonder how Dumbledore dest
royed the ring? said Harry. 
Why didnt I ask him? 
I never really . . . 
His voice tailed away: He was thinking of all the things he should 
have asked Dumbledore, and of how, since the headmaster had 

died, it seemed to Harry that he 
had wasted so many opportunities 
when Dumbledore had been alive, to fi
nd out more . . . to find out 
everything. . . . The silence was shattered as th
e bedroom door flew open with a 
wall-shaking crash. Hermione shrieked and dropped 
Secrets of the 
Darkest Art; Crookshanks streaked under the bed, hissing indig-
nantly; Ron jumped off the bed, 
skidded on a discarded Chocolate 
Frog wrapper, and smacked his head
 on the opposite wall; and Harry 
instinctively dived for his wand before realizing that he was looking 
up at Mrs. Weasley, whose hair 
was disheveled and whose face was 
contorted with rage. Im so sorry to break up this co
zy little gathering, she said, her 
voice trembling. Im sure you all n
eed your rest . . . but there are  
 CHAPTER  SIX  106  wedding presents stacked in my r
oom that need sorting out and I 
was under the impression that
 you had agreed to help. 
Oh yes, said Hermione, looking terrified as she leapt to her 
feet, sending books flying in every 
direction, we will . . . were 
sorry . . . With an anguished look at Ha
rry and Ron, Hermione hurried 
out of the room after Mrs. Weasley. 
Its like being a house-elf, co
mplained Ron in an undertone, 
still massaging his head as he 
and Harry followed. Except without 
the job satisfaction. The sooner this weddings over, the happier Ill 

be. Yeah, said Harry, then well have nothing to do except find 
Horcruxes. . . . Itll be li
ke a holiday, wont it? 
Ron started to laugh, but at the sight of the enormous pile of 
wedding presents waiting for them 
in Mrs. Weasleys room, stopped 
quite abruptly. 
The Delacours arrived the followi
ng morning at eleven oclock. 
Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny were feeling quite resentful to-
ward Fleurs family by this time, and it was with ill grace that Ron 
stumped back upstairs to put on
 matching socks, and Harry at-
tempted to flatten his hair. Once 
they had all been deemed smart 
enough, they trooped out into th
e sunny backyard to await the 
visitors. 
Harry had never seen the place look
ing so tidy. The rusty caul-
drons and old Wellington boots that 
usually littered the steps by the 
back door were gone, replaced by 
two new Flutterby bushes standing 
either side of the door in large po
ts; though there wa
s no breeze, the 
leaves waved lazily, givi
ng an attractive rippl
ing effect. The chickens 
had been shut away, the yard had been swept, and the nearby garden 
THE  GHOUL  IN PAJAMAS  107  had been pruned, plucked, and gene
rally spruced up, although Harry, 
who liked it in its overgrown state, thought that it looked rather for-
lorn without its usual contin
gent of capering gnomes. 
He had lost track of how many 
security enchant
ments had been 
placed upon the Burrow by both 
the Order and the Ministry; all 
he knew was that it was no longer possible for anybody to travel 
by magic directly into the place.
 Mr. Weasley had 
therefore gone 
to meet the Delacours on top of 
a nearby hill, where they were to 
arrive by Portkey. The first soun
d of their approach was an unusu-
ally high-pitched laugh, which tur
ned out to be coming from Mr. 
Weasley, who appeared at the gate 
moments later, laden with luggage 
and leading a beautiful blonde woman in long, leaf-green robes, 
who could only be Fleurs mother. Maman! cried Fleur, rushing forward to embrace her. Papa! 
Monsieur Delacour was nowhere near 
as attractive as his wife; he 
was a head shorter and extremely pl
ump, with a little, pointed black 
beard. However, he looked good
-natured. Bouncing toward Mrs. 
Weasley on high-heeled boots, he 
kissed her twice on each cheek, 
leaving her flustered. 
You ave been to much trouble, he
 said in a deep voice. Fleur 
tells us you ave been working very ard. 
Oh, its been nothing, nothing! 
trilled Mrs. Weasley. No trou-
ble at all! Ron relieved his feelings by aimi
ng a kick at a gnome who was 
peering out from behind one of the new Flutterby bushes. 
Dear lady! said Monsieur Delacour, still holding Mrs. Weasleys 
hand between his own two plump o
nes and beaming. We are most 
honored at the approaching union of
 our two families! Let me pres-
ent my wife, Apolline. 
CHAPTER  SIX  108  Madame Delacour glided forwar
d and stooped to kiss Mrs. Wea-
sley too. Enchante, she said. Your usband as been telling us such amus-
ing stories!
 Mr. Weasley gave a maniacal laugh; Mrs. Weasley threw him a 
look, upon which he became imme
diately silent 
and assumed an expression appropriate to th
e sickbed of a close friend. 
And, of course, you ave met my 
leetle daughter, Gabrielle! said 
Monsieur Delacour. Gabrielle was 
Fleur in miniature; eleven years 
old, with waist-length hair of pu
re, silvery blonde, she gave Mrs. 
Weasley a dazzling smile and hugg
ed her, then threw Harry a glow-
ing look, batting her eyelashes. Ginny cleared her throat loudly. 
Well, come in, do! said Mrs. 
Weasley brightly, and she ushered the Delacours into the house, with
 many No, please!s and After 
you!s and Not at all!s. The Delacours, it soon transpired, were helpful, pleasant guests. 
They were pleased with everything and keen to assist with the prepa-
rations for the wedding. Monsie
ur Delacour pronounced every-
thing from the seating plan 
to the bridesmaids shoes 
Charmant! Madame Delacour was most accomp
lished at household spells and 
had the oven properly cleaned in a trice; Gabrielle followed her elder 
sister around, trying to assist 
in any way she could and jabbering 
away in rapid French. 
On the downside, the Burrow was not built to accommodate so 
many people. Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were now sleeping in the sit-
ting room, having shouted down 
Monsieur and Madame Delacours 
protests and insisted they take 
their bedroom. Gabrielle was sleeping 
with Fleur in Percys old room, and Bill would be sharing with Char- 

 THE  GHOUL  IN PAJAMAS  109  lie, his best man, once Charlie a
rrived from Romania. Opportunities 
to make plans together became vi
rtually nonexistent, and it was in 
desperation that Harry,
 Ron, and Hermione t
ook to volunteering 
to feed the chickens just to 
escape the overcrowded house. 
But she 
still
 wont leave us alone! snarled Ron, as their second 
attempt at a meeting in the yard 
was foiled by the appearance of 
Mrs. Weasley carrying a large ba
sket of laundry in her arms. Oh, good, youve fed the chickens, she called as she approached 
them. Wed better shut them away again before the men arrive 
tomorrow . . . to put up the tent 
for the wedding, she explained, 
pausing to lean against the henhou
se. She looked exhausted. Mil-
lamants Magic Marquees . . . th
eyre very good, Bills escorting 
them. . . . Youd better stay inside 
while theyre here, Harry. I must 
say it does complicate organizing 
a wedding, having all these secu-
rity spells around the place. 
Im sorry, said Harry humbly. 
Oh, dont be silly, dear! said 
Mrs. Weasley at once. I didnt 
mean  well, your safetys much 
more important! Actually, Ive 
been wanting to ask you how you wa
nt to celebrate your birthday, 
Harry. Seventeen, af
ter all, its an important day. . . . 
I dont want a fuss, said Harr
y quickly, envisaging the addi-
tional strain this would put on them all. Really, Mrs. Weasley, 
just a normal dinner would be fine
. . . . Its the day before the wed-
ding. . . . Oh, well, if youre sure, dear. I
ll invite Remus and Tonks, shall 
I? And how about Hagrid? Thatd be great, said Harry. B
ut please dont go to loads of 
trouble. 

 CHAPTER  SIX  110  Not at all, not at all . . . Its no trouble. . . . 
She looked at him, a long, searc
hing look, then smiled a little 
sadly, straightened up, and wa
lked away. Harry watched as she 
waved her wand near the washing 
line, and the damp clothes rose 
into the air to hang themselves up
, and suddenly he felt a great wave 
of remorse for the inconvenience an
d the pain he was giving her. 
C H A P T E R  S E V E N   111  THE WILL OF 
ALBUS DUMBLEDORE 
 e was walking along a mountain road in the cool blue 
light of dawn. Far below, swathed in mist, was the 
shadow of a small town. Was the 
man he sought down there, the 
man he needed so badly he could think of little else, the man who 
held the answer, the answer
 to his problem . . . ? 
Oi, wake up. 
Harry opened his eyes. He was ly
ing again on the camp bed in 
Rons dingy attic room. The sun ha
d not yet risen and the room was 
still shadowy. Pigwidgeon was asle
ep with his head under his tiny 
wing. The scar on Harrys 
forehead was prickling. 
You were muttering in your sleep. 
Was I? 
Yeah. Gregorovitch. You ke
pt saying Gregorovitch. 
Harry was not wearing hi
s glasses; Rons face appeared slightly 
blurred. Whos Gregorovitch? 
H CHAPTER  SEVEN 
 112  I dunno, do I? You were the one saying it. 
Harry rubbed his forehead, thinking
. He had a vague idea he had 
heard the name before, but 
he could not think where. 
I think Voldemorts looking for him. 
Poor bloke, said Ron fervently. 
Harry sat up, still rubbing his scar, now wide awake. He tried to 
remember exactly what he had seen 
in the dream, but all that came 
back was a mountainous horizon and 
the outline of the little village 
cradled in a deep valley. I think hes abroad. 

Who, Gregorovitch? 
Voldemort. I think hes somewh
ere abroad, looking for Grego-rovitch. It didnt look like anywhere in Britain. 
You reckon you were seei
ng into his mind again? 
Ron sounded worried. 
Do me a favor and dont tell He
rmione, said Harry. Although 
how she expects me to stop seei
ng stuff in my
 sleep . . . He gazed up at little Pigwidgeons cage, thinking . . . Why was 
the name Gregorovitch familiar? 
I think, he said slowly, he
s got something to do with Quid-
ditch. Theres some connection, but 
I cant  I cant think what it 
is. 
Quidditch? said Ron. Sure youre not thinking of Gorgo-
vitch? Who? 
Dragomir Gorgovitch, Chaser, tr
ansferred to the Chudley Can-
nons for a record fee two years ago. Record holder for most Quaffle 
drops in a season. No, said Harry. Im definitely
 not thinking of Gorgovitch. 
THE  WILL  OF 
ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE 
 113  I try not to either, said Ron. Well, happy birthday anyway. 
Wow  thats right, I forgot! Im seventeen! 

Harry seized the wand lying beside his camp bed, pointed it at the 
cluttered desk where he had le
ft his glasses, and said, 
Accio Glasses! Although they were only around a foot away, there was something 
immensely satisfying about seeing them zoom toward him, at least 
until they poked him in the eye. 
Slick, snorted Ron. 
Reveling in the removal of his 
Trace, Harry sent Rons posses-
sions flying around the room, caus
ing Pigwidgeon to wake up and 
flutter excitedly around his cage. Harry also tried tying the laces 
of his trainers by magic (the resultant knot took several minutes to 
untie by hand) and, purely for the 
pleasure of it, turned the orange 
robes on Rons Chudley Cannons posters bright blue. 
Id do your fly by hand, though
, Ron advised Harry, sniggering 
when Harry immediately checked it. Heres your present. Unwrap 
it up here, its not fo
r my mothers eyes. 
A book? said Harry as
 he took the rectangular parcel. Bit of a 
departure from tradition, isnt it? 
This isnt your average book,
 said Ron. Its pure gold: 
Twelve 
Fail-Safe Ways to Charm Witches.
 Explains everything you need to 
know about girls. If only Id had this last year Id have known exactly 
how to get rid of Lavender and I 
wouldve known how to get going 
with . . . Well, Fred and George gave me a copy, and Ive learned a 
lot. Youd be surprised, its 
not all about wand
work, either. When they arrived in the kitchen they found a pile of presents 
waiting on the table. Bill and Mo
nsieur Delacour were finishing 
their breakfasts, while Mrs. Weas
ley stood chatting 
to them over 
the frying pan. 
CHAPTER  SEVEN 
 114  Arthur told me to wish you a 
happy seventeenth, Harry, said 
Mrs. Weasley, beaming at him. H
e had to leave early for work, but 
hell be back for dinner. Th
ats our present on top. 
Harry sat down, took the square 
parcel she had indicated, and 
unwrapped it. Inside was a watch 
very like the one Mr. and Mrs. 
Weasley had given Ron for his sev
enteenth; it was gold, with stars 
circling around the fa
ce instead of hands. Its traditional to give a wizard a watch when he comes of age, 
said Mrs. Weasley, watching him an
xiously from besi
de the cooker. 
Im afraid that one isnt new like 
Rons, it was actually my brother 
Fabians and he wasnt terribly care
ful with his possessions, its a bit 
dented on the back, but  The rest of her speech was lost; Harry had got up and hugged her. 
He tried to put a lot of unsaid things into the hug and perhaps she 
understood them, because she patted his cheek clumsily when he 
released her, then waved her wand 
in a slightly random way, causing 
half a pack of bacon to
 flop out of the fryi
ng pan onto the floor. Happy birthday, Harry! said
 Hermione, hurrying into the 
kitchen and adding her own present to the top of the pile. Its not 
much, but I hope you like it. What
 did you get him? she added to 
Ron, who seemed not to hear her. 
Come on, then, open Hermiones! said Ron. 
She had bought him a new Sneakoscope. The other packages con-
tained an enchanted razor from Bill and Fleur (Ah yes, zis will give 
you ze smoothest shave you will ev
er ave, Monsieur Delacour as-
sured him, but you must tell it clea
rly what you want . . . ozzerwise 
you might find you ave a leetle less
 hair zan you would like. . . .), 
chocolates from the Delacours, an
d an enormous box of the latest 
Weasleys Wizard Wheezes merchandise from Fred and George. 
THE  WILL  OF 
ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE 
 115  Harry, Ron, and Hermione did not li
nger at the table, as the ar-
rival of Madame Delacour, Fleur,
 and Gabrielle made the kitchen 
uncomfortably crowded. Ill pack these for you, Hermio
ne said brightly, taking Harrys 
presents out of his arms as the thr
ee of them headed back upstairs. 
Im nearly done, Im just waiting 
for the rest of your underpants 
to come out of the wash, Ron  
Rons splutter was interrupted by the opening of a door on the 
first-floor landing. 
Harry, will you come in here a moment? 

It was Ginny. Ron came to an 
abrupt halt, but Hermione took 
him by the elbow and tugged him on
 up the stairs. Feeling nervous, 
Harry followed Ginny into her room. 
He had never been inside it before. It was small, but bright. There 
was a large poster of the Wizardin
g band the Weird Sisters on one 
wall, and a picture of Gwenog Jones
, Captain of the 
all-witch Quid-
ditch team the Holyhead Harpies, 
on the other. A desk stood facing 
the open window, which looked out over the orchard where he and 
Ginny had once played two-a-si
de Quidditch with Ron and Her-
mione, and which now housed a la
rge, pearly white marquee. The 
golden flag on top was le
vel with Ginnys window. 
Ginny looked up into Harrys face
, took a deep breath, and said, 
Happy seventeenth. 
Yeah . . . thanks. She was looking at him steadily; he
, however, found it difficult to look back at her; it was like 
gazing into a brilliant light. 
Nice view, he said feebly, pointing toward the window. 
She ignored this. He could not blame her. 
I couldnt think what to get you, she said. 
CHAPTER  SEVEN 
 116  You didnt have to
 get me anything. 
She disregarded this too. 
I didnt know what would be 
useful. Nothing too big, because 
you wouldnt be able to take it with you. 
He chanced a glance at her. She was not tearful; that was one of 
the many wonderful things about 
Ginny, she was rarely weepy. He 
had sometimes thought that having
 six brothers must have tough-
ened her up. 
She took a step closer to him. 
So then I thought, Id like you 
to have something to remember 
me by, you know, if you meet some veela when youre off doing 
whatever youre doing. I think dating opportunities are 
going to be pretty thin on the 
ground, to be honest. 
Theres the silver lining Ive 
been looking for, she whispered, 
and then she was kissing him as she had never kissed him before, 
and Harry was kissing her 
back, and it was blissful oblivion, better 
than firewhisky; she was the only 
real thing in the world, Ginny, 
the feel of her, one hand at her 
back and one in her long, sweet-
smelling hair  
The door banged open behind them and they jumped apart. Oh, said Ron pointedly. Sorry. 
Ron! Hermione was just behind
 him, slightly out of breath. 
There was a strained silence, then Gi
nny said in a flat little voice, 
Well, happy birthday anyway, Harry. 
Rons ears were scarlet; Herm
ione looked nervous. Harry wanted 
to slam the door in their faces, bu
t it felt as thou
gh a cold draft 
had entered the room when the door opened, and his shining mo-

ment had popped like a soap bubb
le. All the reasons for ending his 
THE  WILL  OF 
ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE 
 117  relationship with Ginny, for stayin
g well away from her, seemed to 
have slunk inside the room with 
Ron, and all happy forgetfulness 
was gone. 
He looked at Ginny, wanting to sa
y something, though he hardly 
knew what, but she had turned her back on him. He thought that 
she might have succumbed, for once
, to tears. He could not do 
anything to comfort he
r in front of Ron. 
Ill see you later, he said, and 
followed the other two out of the 
bedroom. Ron marched downstairs, through the still-crowded kitchen and 
into the yard, and Harry kept pace
 with him all the way, Hermione 
trotting along behind them looking scared. Once he reached the seclusion of the freshly mown lawn, Ron 
rounded on Harry. 
You ditched her. What are 
you doing now, messing her 
around? 
Im not messing her around, 
said Harry, as Hermione caught 
up with them. Ron  
But Ron held up a hand to silence her. 

She was really cut up 
when you ended it  So was I. You know why I stoppe
d it, and it wasnt because I 
wanted to. 
Yeah, but you go snogging her now and shes just going to get 
her hopes up again  
Shes not an idiot, she knows it
 cant happen, shes not expecting 
us to  to end up married, or  As he said it, a vivid picture fo
rmed in Harrys mind of Ginny 
in a white dress, marrying a tall, 
faceless, and unpleasant stranger. 
CHAPTER  SEVEN 
 118  In one spiraling moment it seemed
 to hit him: Her future was free 
and unencumbered, whereas his . . 
. he could see nothing but Vol-
demort ahead. If you keep groping her 
every chance you get  
It wont happen again, said Harry harshly. The day was cloud-
less, but he felt as though the sun had gone in. Okay? 
Ron looked half resentful, half sheepish; he rocked backward 
and forward on his feet for a moment
, then said, Right then, well, 
thats . . . yeah. Ginny did not seek another one-to-one meeting with Harry for 
the rest of the day, nor by any l
ook or gesture did she show that 
they had shared more than polite conversation in her room. Nev-
ertheless, Charlies arrival came as
 a relief to Harry. It provided a 
distraction, watching Mrs. Weasley 
force Charlie into a chair, raise 
her wand threateningly, and announ
ce that he was about to get a 
proper haircut. As Harrys birthday dinner woul
d have stretched the Burrows 
kitchen to breaking point even before
 the arrival of Charlie, Lupin, 
Tonks, and Hagrid, several tables were placed end to end in the 
garden. Fred and George bewitche
d a number of purple lanterns, 
all emblazoned with a la
rge number 17, to hang in midair over the 
guests. Thanks to Mrs. Weasleys 
ministrations, Georges wound was 
neat and clean, but Harry was not yet 
used to the dark hole in the 
side of his head, despite the 
twins many jokes about it. 
Hermione made purple and gold
 streamers erupt from the end 
of her wand and drape themselves artistically over the trees and 
bushes. 
Nice, said Ron, as with one fina
l flourish of her 
wand, Hermione  
 THE  WILL  OF 
ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE 
 119  turned the leaves on the crabapple 
tree to gold. Youve really got an 
eye for that sort of thing. 
Thank you, Ron! said Hermio
ne, looking both pleased and a 
little confused. Harry turned away
, smiling to himself. He had a 
funny notion that he would find a chapter on compliments when 
he found time to peruse his copy of 
Twelve Fail-Safe Ways to Charm 
Witches; he caught Ginnys eye and grinned at her before remem-
bering his promise to Ron and hurriedly striking up a conversation 
with Monsieur Delacour. 
Out of the way, out of the way! sang Mrs. Weasley, coming 
through the gate with what appeared
 to be a giant, beach-ball-sized 
Snitch floating in front of her. 
Seconds later Harry realized that it 
was his birthday cake, which Mrs. Weasley was suspending with her 
wand, rather than risk carrying 
it over the uneven ground. When 
the cake had finally landed in the 
middle of the ta
ble, Harry said, 
That looks amazing, Mrs. Weasley. 
Oh, its nothing, dear, she said fondly. Over her shoulder, Ron 
gave Harry the thumbs-up and mouthed, 
Good one.
 By seven oclock all the guests had arrived, led into the house by 
Fred and George, who had waited for them at the end of the lane. 

Hagrid had honored the occasion by
 wearing his best, and horrible, 
hairy brown suit. Although Lupin 
smiled as he shook Harrys hand, 
Harry thought he looked rather unha
ppy. It was all very odd; Tonks, 
beside him, looked simply radiant. 
Happy birthday, Harry, she said, hugging him tightly. 
Seventeen, eh! said Hagrid as 
he accepted a bucket-sized glass 
of wine from Fred. Six years ter 
the day since we met, Harry, dyeh 
remember it? 

 CHAPTER  SEVEN 
 120  Vaguely, said Harry, grinning
 up at him. Didnt you smash 
down the front door, give Dudley a 
pigs tail, and tell me I was a 
wizard? 
I forge the details, Hagrid chortled. All righ, Ron, 
Hermione? 
Were fine, said He
rmione. How are you? Ar, not bad. Bin busy, we got so
me newborn unicorns, Ill show 
yeh when yeh get back  Harry avoided Rons and Hermiones 
gazes as Hagrid rummaged in hi
s pocket. Here, Harry  couldn 
think what ter get yeh, but then I remembered this. He pulled out 

a small, slightly furry drawstring po
uch with a long string, evidently 
intended to be worn around the nec
k. Mokeskin. Hide anythin in 
there an no one but the owner can get it out. Theyre rare, them. 
Hagrid, thanks! Snothin, said Hagrid with a 
wave of a dustbin-lid-sized hand. 
An theres Charlie! Always
 liked him  hey! Charlie! Charlie approached, running his hand slightly ruefully over his 
new, brutally short haircut. He was shorter than Ron, thickset, with 
a number of burns and scra
tches up his muscley arms. 
Hi, Hagrid, hows it going? 

Bin meanin ter write fer 
ages. Hows Norbert doin? 
Norbert? Charlie laughed. T
he Norwegian Ridgeback? We 
call her Norberta now. 
Wha  Norberts a girl? 
Oh yeah, said Charlie. 
How can you tell? asked Hermione. Theyre a lot more vicious, said
 Charlie. He looked over his 
shoulder and dropped 
his voice. Wish Dad would hurry up and 
get here. Mums getting edgy. 
THE  WILL  OF 
ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE 
 121  They all looked over at Mrs. Weas
ley. She was trying to talk to 
Madame Delacour while glanci
ng repeatedly at the gate. I think wed better start withou
t Arthur, she called to the gar-
den at large after a moment or tw
o. He must have
 been held up 
at  oh! They all saw it at the 
same time: a streak of
 light that came fly-
ing across the yard and onto the table,
 where it resolved itself into a 
bright silver weasel, which stood on
 its hind legs and spoke with 
Mr. Weasleys voice. 
Minister of Magic 
coming with me. 
The Patronus dissolved into thin air, leaving Fleurs family peer-
ing in astonishment at the 
place where it had vanished. 
We shouldnt be here, said 
Lupin at once. Harry  Im sorry 
 Ill explain another time  
He seized Tonkss wrist and pulled her away; they reached the 
fence, climbed over it, and vanished 
from sight. Mrs. Weasley looked 
bewildered. 
The Minister  but why  
? I dont understand  
But there was no time to discuss 
the matter; a second later, Mr. 
Weasley had appeared out of thin 
air at the gate, accompanied by 
Rufus Scrimgeour, instantly recogn
izable by his ma
ne of grizzled 
hair. The two newcomers marched across 
the yard toward the garden 
and the lantern-lit table, where ev
erybody sat in silence, watching 
them draw closer. As Scrimgeour 
came within range of the lantern 
light, Harry saw that he looked much older than the last time they 
had met, scraggy and grim. 
Sorry to intrude, said Scrimgeour, 
as he limped to
 a halt before 
the table. Especially as I can see that I am gate-crashing a party. 
CHAPTER  SEVEN 
 122  His eyes lingered for a moment
 on the giant Snitch cake. Many happy returns. 
Thanks, said Harry. 
I require a private word with 
you, Scrimgeour went on. Also 
with Mr. Ronald Weasley and Miss Hermione Granger. 
Us? said Ron, sounding surprised. Why us? 
I shall tell you that when we ar
e somewhere more private, said 
Scrimgeour. Is there such a place? he demanded of Mr. Weasley. 
Yes, of course, said Mr. Weasley, who looked nervous. The, er, 
sitting room, why dont you use that? 
You can lead the way, Scrimgeour
 said to Ron. There will be 
no need for you to ac
company us, Arthur. 
Harry saw Mr. Weasley exchange a worried look with Mrs. 
Weasley as he, Ron, and Hermione stood up. As they led the 
way back to the house in silenc
e, Harry knew that the other two 
were thinking the same as he 
was: Scrimgeour must, somehow, 
have learned that the three of them
 were planning to drop out of 
Hogwarts. 
Scrimgeour did not speak as th
ey all passed through the messy 
kitchen and into the Burrows sitting room. Although the garden 

had been full of soft golden evening 
light, it was already dark in 
here: Harry flicked his wa
nd at the oil lamps as
 he entered and they 
illuminated the shabby but cozy room. Scrimgeour sat himself in 

the sagging armchair that Mr. Weasley normally occupied, leaving 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione to squeeze side by side onto the sofa. 
Once they had done so, Scrimgeour spoke. 
I have some questions for the three of you, and I think it will be 
best if we do it individually. If you two  he pointed at Harry and 

Hermione  can wait upstairs, I will start with Ronald. 
THE  WILL  OF 
ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE 
 123  Were not going anywhere, said
 Harry, while Hermione nodded 
vigorously. You can speak to 
us together, or not at all. 
Scrimgeour gave Harry a cold, 
appraising look. Harry had the 
impression that the Minister wa
s wondering whether it was worth-
while opening hostilities this early. 
Very well then, together, he 
said, shrugging. He cleared his 
throat. I am here, as Im sure you know, because of Albus Dum-

bledores will. Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
looked at one another. 
A surprise, apparently! You we
re not aware then that Dumble-
dore had left you anything? A-all of us? said Ron.
 Me and Hermione too? Yes, all of  
But Harry interrupted. Dumbledore died over a month ag
o. Why has it taken this long 
to give us what
 he left us? 
Isnt it obvious? said Hermio
ne, before Scrimgeour could an-
swer. They wanted to examine whatever hes left us. You had no 
right to do that! she said, and her voice trembled slightly. 
I had every right, said Scrimge
our dismissively. The Decree for 
Justifiable Confiscation gives the 
Ministry the power to confiscate 
the contents of a will  That law was created to stop wiza
rds passing on Dark artifacts, 
said Hermione, and the Ministry
 is supposed to have powerful 
evidence that the deceaseds posse
ssions are illegal before seizing 
them! Are you telling me that yo
u thought Dumbledore was trying to pass us something cursed? 
Are you planning to follow a 
career in Magical Law, Miss 
Granger? asked Scrimgeour. 
CHAPTER  SEVEN 
 124  No, Im not, retorted Hermione. Im hoping to do some good 
in the world! 
Ron laughed. Scrimgeours eyes 
flickered toward him and away 
again as Harry spoke. 
So why have you decided to let us have our things now? Cant 
think of a pretext to keep them? 
No, itll be because the thirty-one days are up, said Hermione 
at once. They cant keep the objects longer than that unless they 
can prove theyre dangerous. Right? 
Would you say you were close 
to Dumbledore, Ronald? asked 
Scrimgeour, ignoring Hermio
ne. Ron looked startled. 
Me? Not  not really . . . It
 was always Harry who . . . 
Ron looked around at Harry an
d Hermione, to see Hermione 
giving him a 
stop-talking-now! sort of look, but the damage was 
done: Scrimgeour looked as though he had heard exactly what he 

had expected, and wanted, to hear. 
He swooped like a bird of prey 
upon Rons answer. 
If you were not very close to 
Dumbledore, how do you account 
for the fact that he remembered you in his will? He made exception-ally few personal bequests. The vast
 majority of his possessions  his 
private library, his magical instruments, and other personal effects  
were left to Hogwarts. Why do yo
u think you were singled out? I . . . dunno, said Ron. I . . . when I say we werent close . . . I 
mean, I think he liked me. . . . Youre being modest, Ron, said Hermione. Dumbledore was 
very fond of you. 
This was stretching the truth to br
eaking point; as far as Harry 
knew, Ron and Dumbledore had nev
er been alone together, and  
 THE  WILL  OF 
ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE 
 125  direct contact between them had 
been negligible. However, Scrim-
geour did not seem to be listening.
 He put his hand inside his cloak 
and drew out a drawstring pouch mu
ch larger than the one Hagrid 
had given Harry. From it, he remo
ved a scroll of parchment which 
he unrolled and read aloud. The Last Will and Testament of 
Albus Percival Wulfric Brian 
Dumbledore . . . Yes, here we are. 
. . . To Ronald Bilius Weasley, I 
leave my Deluminator, in the hope that he will remember me when 
he uses it.
 
Scrimgeour took from the bag an
 object that Harry had seen be-
fore: It looked something like a silver
 cigarette lighter, but it had, he 
knew, the power to suck all light fr
om a place, and restore it, with 
a simple click. Scrimgeour leaned
 forward and passed the Delumi-
nator to Ron, who took it and turned
 it over in his fingers, looking 
stunned. 
That is a valuable object, sa
id Scrimgeour, watching Ron. It 
may even be unique. Ce
rtainly it is of Dumbledores own design. 
Why would he have left 
you an item so rare? 
Ron shook his head, looking bewildered. 

Dumbledore must have taught 
thousands of students, Scrim-
geour persevered. Yet the only ones
 he remembered in his will are 
you three. Why is that? To what
 use did he think you would put 
his Deluminator, Mr. Weasley? 
Put out lights, I spose, mumb
led Ron. What else could I do 
with it? Evidently Scrimgeour had no sugg
estions. After squinting at Ron 
for a moment or two, he turned back to Dumbledores will. 
To Miss Hermione Jean Granger, I leave my copy of
 The Tales  
 CHAPTER  SEVEN 
 126  of Beedle the Bard, 
in the hope that she will find it entertaining and 
instructive. 
Scrimgeour now pulled out of the ba
g a small book that looked as 
ancient as the copy of 
Secrets of the Darkest Art
 upstairs. Its binding 
was stained and peeling in places
. Hermione took it from Scrim-
geour without a word. She held the 
book in her lap 
and gazed at it. 
Harry saw that the title was in rune
s; he had never learned to read 
them. As he looked, a tear splash
ed onto the embossed symbols. 
Why do you think Dumbledore left you that book, Miss 
Granger? asked Scrimgeour. 
He . . . he knew I liked books, 
said Hermione in a thick voice, 
mopping her eyes with her sleeve. 
But why that particular book? 
I dont know. He must have thought Id enjoy it. 
Did you ever discuss codes, or 
any means of passing secret mes-
sages, with Dumbledore? 
No, I didnt, said Hermione, sti
ll wiping her eyes on her sleeve. 
And if the Ministry hasnt found 
any hidden codes in this book in 
thirty-one days, I doubt that I will. 
She suppressed a sob. They were we
dged together so tightly that 
Ron had difficulty extracting his arm to put it around Hermiones 
shoulders. Scrimgeour turned back to the will. 
To Harry James Potter,
 he read, and Harrys insides contracted 
with a sudden excitement, 
I leave the Snitch he caught in his first 
Quidditch match at Hogwarts, as a 
reminder of the rewards of perse-
verance and skill. 
As Scrimgeour pulled out the tiny, walnut-sized golden ball, its 
silver wings fluttered rather feebl
y, and Harry could not help feeling 
a definite sense of anticlimax. 
THE  WILL  OF 
ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE 
 127  Why did Dumbledore leave you this Snitch? asked Scrimgeour. No idea, said Harry. For the re
asons you just read out, I sup-
pose . . . to remind me what you can get if you . . . persevere and 
whatever it was. You think this a mere symbolic keepsake, then? 
I suppose so, said Harry. 
What else could it be? 
Im asking the questions, said Scrimgeour, shifting his chair a 
little closer to the sofa. Dusk was 
really falling outside now; the mar-
quee beyond the windows towered 
ghostly white over the hedge. 
I notice that your birthday cake
 is in the shape of a Snitch, 
Scrimgeour said to Ha
rry. Why is that? Hermione laughed derisively. 
Oh, it cant be a reference to the fact Harrys a great Seeker, thats way too obvious, she said. There 
must be a secret message from 
Dumbledore hidden in the icing! I dont think theres anything hidden in the icing, said Scrim-
geour, but a Snitch would be a 
very good hiding place for a small 
object. You know why, Im sure? 
Harry shrugged. Hermione, however, answered: Harry thought 
that answering questions correctly 
was such a deeply ingrained habit 
she could not suppress the urge. 
Because Snitches have fl
esh memories, she said. 
What? said Harry and Ron toge
ther; both considered Hermi-
ones Quidditch knowledge negligible. 
Correct, said Scrimgeour. A Snitch is not touched by bare skin 
before it is released, not even by
 the maker, who wears gloves. It 
carries an enchantment by which it
 can identify the first human to 
lay hands upon it, in case of a di
sputed capture. This Snitch  he 
held up the tiny golden ball  w
ill remember your touch, Potter. 
CHAPTER  SEVEN 
 128  It occurs to me that Dumbledore,
 who had prodigious magical skill, 
whatever his other faults, might have
 enchanted this 
Snitch so that 
it will open only for you. 
Harrys heart was beating rather 
fast. He was sure that Scrim-
geour was right. How could he avoid 
taking the Snitch with his bare 
hand in front of the Minister? You dont say anything, said 
Scrimgeour. Perha
ps you already 
know what the Snitch contains? 
No, said Harry, still wondering 
how he could appear to touch 
the Snitch without really doing so. If only he knew Legilimency, 

really knew it, and could read Hermiones mind; he could practi-
cally hear her brain whirring beside him. 
Take it, said Sc
rimgeour quietly. 
Harry met the Ministers yellow eyes and knew he had no option 
but to obey. He held out his hand, and Scrimgeour leaned forward 

again and placed the Snitch, slow
ly and deliberately, into Harrys 
palm. Nothing happened. As Harrys finger
s closed around the Snitch, 
its tired wings fluttered and were still. Scrimgeour, Ron, and Her-
mione continued to gaze avidly at
 the now partially concealed ball, 
as if still hoping it migh
t transform in some way. 
That was dramatic, said Harry coolly. Both Ron and Hermi-
one laughed. Thats all, then, is it? asked 
Hermione, making to prise herself 
off the sofa. 
Not quite, said Scrimgeour, 
who looked bad-tempered now. 
Dumbledore left you a se
cond bequest, Potter. 
What is it? asked Harry,
 excitement rekindling. Scrimgeour did not bother to re
ad from the wi
ll this time. THE  WILL  OF 
ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE 
 129  The sword of Godric Gryffindor, he said. 
Hermione and Ron both stiffened. Harry looked around for a 
sign of the ruby-encrusted hilt,
 but Scrimgeour did not pull the 
sword from the leather pouch, whic
h in any case l
ooked much too 
small to contain it. So where is it? Har
ry asked suspiciously. 
Unfortunately, said Scrimgeour, that sword was not Dumble-
dores to give away. The sword of Godric Gryffindor is an important 
historical artifact, an
d as such, belongs  
It belongs to Harry! said Hermio
ne hotly. It chose him, he was 
the one who found it, it came to
 him out of the Sorting Hat  
According to reliable historical 
sources, the sword may present 
itself to any worthy Gryffindor,
 said Scrimgeour. That does not 
make it the exclusive property of Mr. Potter, whatever Dumbledore 
may have decided. Scrimgeour sc
ratched his badly shaven cheek, 
scrutinizing Harry. W
hy do you think  ? 
 Dumbledore wanted to give me the sword? said Harry, 
struggling to keep his temper. Maybe he thought it would look 
nice on my wall. 
This is not a joke, Potter! grow
led Scrimgeour. Was it because 
Dumbledore believed that only the sword of Godric Gryffindor 
could defeat the Heir of Slytherin?
 Did he wish to give you that 
sword, Potter, because he believed, as do many, that you are the one 

destined to destroy He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named? 
Interesting theory, said Harry. 
Has anyone ever tried sticking 
a sword in Voldemort? Maybe the 
Ministry should put some people 
onto that, instead of wasting th
eir time stripping down Delumina-
tors or covering up breakouts from Azkaban. So is this what youve 

been doing, Minister, shut up in 
your office, trying to break open 
CHAPTER  SEVEN 
 130  a Snitch? People are dying  I was nearly one of them  Volde-
mort chased me across three coun
ties, he killed Mad-Eye Moody, 
but theres been no word about an
y of that from the Ministry, has 
there? And you still expect us to cooperate with you! 
You go too far! shouted Scrimge
our, standing up; Harry jumped 
to his feet too. Scrimgeour li
mped toward Harry and jabbed him 
hard in the chest with the point of
 his wand: It singed a hole in 
Harrys T-shirt like a lit cigarette. 
Oi! said Ron, jumping up and raising his own wand, but Harry 
said, No! Dyou want to give him an excuse to arrest us? 
Remembered youre not at school
, have you? said Scrimgeour, 
breathing hard into Harrys face. Remembered that I am not Dum-
bledore, who forgave your insolence and insubordination? You may 
wear that scar like a crown, Potte
r, but it is not 
up to a seventeen-
year-old boy to tell me 
how to do my job! Its
 time you learned some 
respect! Its time you earned it, said Harry. 
The floor trembled; there was a so
und of running footsteps, then 
the door to the sitting room burs
t open and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley 
ran in. We  we thought we heard  began Mr. Weasley, looking 
thoroughly alarmed at the sight 
of Harry and the Minister virtu-
ally nose to nose. 
 raised voices, panted Mrs. Weasley. 
Scrimgeour took a couple of step
s back from Harry, glancing at 
the hole he had made in Harrys T-
shirt. He seemed to regret his 
loss of temper. It  it was nothing, he growled. I
 . . . regret your attitude, he 
THE  WILL  OF 
ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE 
 131  said, looking Harry full in the face
 once more. You seem to think 
that the Ministry does not desi
re what you  what Dumbledore 
 desired. We ought to be working together. 
I dont like your methods, Minister, said Harry. Remember? 
For the second time, he raised 
his right fist and displayed to 
Scrimgeour the scars th
at still showed white 
on the back of it, 
spelling I must not tell lies.
 Scrimgeours expression hardened. He 
turned away without another word and limped from the room. Mrs. 
Weasley hurried after him; Harry he
ard her stop at the back door. 
After a minute or so she called, Hes gone! 
What did he want? Mr. Weasle
y asked, looking around at 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione as Mr
s. Weasley came hurrying back 
to them. 
To give us what Dumbledore left 
us, said Harry. Theyve only 
just released the cont
ents of his will. 
Outside in the garden, over the 
dinner tables, the three objects 
Scrimgeour had given them were 
passed from hand to hand. Ev-
eryone exclaimed over the Deluminator and 
The Tales of Beedle the 
Bard and lamented the fact that Sc
rimgeour had refused to pass on 
the sword, but none of them coul
d offer any suggestion as to why 
Dumbledore would have left Har
ry an old Snitch. As Mr. Weas-
ley examined the Deluminator for the third or fourth time, Mrs. 
Weasley said tentatively, Harry, dear, everyones awfully hungry, we 

didnt like to start without you. . . . Shall I serve dinner now? 
They all ate rather hurriedly an
d then, after a hasty chorus of 
Happy Birthday and much gulpin
g of cake, the party broke up. 
Hagrid, who was invited to the wedding the following day, but was 
far too bulky to sleep in the overstretched Burrow, left to set up a 

tent for himself in a neighboring field. 
CHAPTER  SEVEN 
 132  Meet us upstairs, Harry whispered to Hermione, while they 
helped Mrs. Weasley restore the ga
rden to its normal state. After 
everyones gone to bed. 
Up in the attic room, Ron examined his Deluminator, and Harry filled Hagrids mokeskin purse, not with gold, but with those items 
he most prized, apparently worthle
ss though some of them were: the 
Marauders Map, the shard of Sirius
s enchanted mirror, and R.A.B.s 
locket. He pulled the strings tight and slipped the purse around his 
neck, then sat holding the old Snit
ch and watching its wings flutter 
feebly. At last, Hermione tapped on the door and tiptoed inside. 
Muffliato, she whispered, waving her wand in the direction of 
the stairs. Thought you didnt approve of that spell? said Ron. 
Times change, said Hermione
. Now, show us that Delumi-
nator. 
Ron obliged at once. Holding it up in front of him, he clicked it. 
The solitary lamp they had lit went out at once. The thing is, whispered Hermione through the dark, we could 
have achieved that with Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder. 
There was a small click, and the ball of light from the lamp flew 
back to the ceiling and illu
minated them all once more. 
Still, its cool, said Ron, a li
ttle defensively. And from what 
they said, Dumbledore invented it himself! 
I know, but surely he wouldnt 
have singled you out in his will 
just to help us turn out the lights! 
Dyou think he knew the Minist
ry would confiscate his will and 
examine everything hed 
left us? asked Harry. Definitely, said Hermione. He couldnt tell us in the will why 
he was leaving us these things, but that still doesnt explain . . . 
THE  WILL  OF 
ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE 
 133  . . . why he couldnt have give
n us a hint when he was alive? 
asked Ron. 
Well, exactly, said Herm
ione, now flicking through 
The Tales of Beedle the Bard.
 If these things are im
portant enough to pass on 
right under the nose of the Minist
ry, youd think hed have let us 
know why . . . unless he thought it was obvious? 
Thought wrong, then, didnt he? said Ron. I always said he 
was mental. Brilliant and everything, but cracked. Leaving Harry 
an old Snitch  what th
e hell was that about? 
Ive no idea, said Hermione. 
When Scrimgeour made you take 
it, Harry, I was so sure that 
something was going to happen! 
Yeah, well, said Harry, his pulse quickening as he raised the 
Snitch in his fingers. I wasnt 
going to try too ha
rd in front of 
Scrimgeour, was I? 
What do you mean? asked Hermione. 

The Snitch I caught in my fi
rst ever Quidditch match? said 
Harry. Dont you remember? 
Hermione looked simply bemused.
 Ron, however, gasped, point-
ing frantically from Harry to the 
Snitch and back again until he 
found his voice. 
That was the one you nearly swallowed! 
Exactly, said Harry, and with his
 heart beating fast, he pressed 
his mouth to the Snitch. 
It did not open. Frustration an
d bitter disappointment welled 
up inside him: He lowered the golden sphere, but then Hermione 
cried out. Writing! Theres writing on it, quick, look! 
He nearly dropped the Snitch in
 surprise and excitement. Her-
mione was quite right. Engraved 
upon the smooth golden surface, 
CHAPTER  SEVEN 
 134  where seconds before there had 
been nothing, were five words 
written in the thin, slanting hand
writing that Harry recognized as 
Dumbledores: I open at the close. 
He had barely read them when the words vanished again. 
I open at the close . . . Wh
ats that suppos
ed to mean? 
Hermione and Ron shook their heads, looking blank. 

I open at the cl
ose . . . at the close . . . I open at 
the close . . . But no matter how often they re
peated the words, with many 
different inflections, they were un
able to wring any more meaning 
from them. 
And the sword, said Ron finally, when they had at last aban-
doned their attempts to divine mean
ing in the Snitchs inscription. 
Why did he want Harry to have the sword? 
And why couldnt he just have told me? Harry said quietly. It 
was there, it was right there on the wall of his office during all our 
talks last year! If he wanted me to have it, why didnt he just give 

it to me then? 
He felt as though he were sitting in an examination with a ques-
tion he ought to have been able to
 answer in front of him, his brain 
slow and unresponsive. Was there 
something he had missed in the 
long talks with Dumbledore last year? Ought he to know what it all 
meant? Had Dumbledore expected him to understand? 
And as for this book, said Hermione, 
The Tales of Beedle the 
Bard . . . Ive never even heard of them! 
Youve never heard of The Tales of Beedle the Bard
? said Ron 
incredulously. Youre kidding, right? 
 THE  WILL  OF 
ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE 
 135  No, Im not! said Hermione in surprise. Do you know them, 
then? Well, of course I do! Harry looked up, diverted. The circ
umstance of Ron having read 
a book that Hermione had not was 
unprecedented. Ron, however, 
looked bemused by their surprise. 
Oh come on! All the old kids stories are supposed to be Beedles, 
arent they? The Fountain of Fair 
Fortune . . . The Wizard and the 
Hopping Pot . . . Babbitty Rabbitty
 and her Cackling Stump . . . Excuse me? said Hermione, giggling. What was that last 
one? Come off it! said Ron, looking 
in disbelief from Harry to Her-
mione. You mustve hear
d of Babbitty Rabbitty  Ron, you know full well Harry and 
I were brought up by Muggles! 
said Hermione. We didnt hear stories like that when we were little, 

we heard Snow White and the Se
ven Dwarfs and Cinderella  
Whats that, an illness? asked Ron. 
So these are childrens stories? asked Hermione, bending again 
over the runes. Yeah, said Ron uncertainly, I 
mean, thats just what you hear, 
you know, that all these old stories came from Beedle. I dunno what theyre like in the original versions. 
But I wonder why Dumbledore 
thought I should read them? Something creaked downstairs. Probably just Charlie, now Mums 
asleep, sneaking off to regrow 
his hair, said Ron nervously. 
All the same, we should get to
 bed, whispered Hermione. It 
wouldnt do to oversleep tomorrow. 

 CHAPTER  SEVEN 
 136  No, agreed Ron. A brutal trip
le murder by the bridegrooms 
mother might put a bit of a damper on the wedding. Ill get the 

lights. 
And he clicked the Deluminator 
once more as Hermione left 
the room. C H A P T E R  E I G H T   137  THE WEDDING 
   hree oclock on the following afternoon found Harry, Ron, 
Fred, and George standing outside the great white marquee 
in the orchard, awaiting the arrival of the wedding guests. Harry had 

taken a large dose of Polyjuice Potion and was now the double of a 
redheaded Muggle boy from the loca
l village, Ottery St. Catchpole, 
from whom Fred had stolen hair
s using a Summoning Charm. The 
plan was to introduce Harry as Cousin Barny and trust to the 
great number of Weasley relatives to camouflage him. 
All four of them were clutching seating plans, so that they could 
help show people to the right seats. A host of white-robed waiters 
had arrived an hour earlier, alon
g with a golden-jacketed band, and 
all of these wizards were currently sitting a short distance away un-
der a tree; Harry could see a blue ha
ze of pipe smoke issuing from 
the spot. Behind Harry, the entrance to th
e marquee revealed rows and 
rows of fragile golden chairs set on ei
ther side of a long purple carpet. 
T CHAPTER  EIGHT  138  The supporting poles were entwined
 with white and gold flowers. 
Fred and George had fastened an enormous bunch of golden bal-

loons over the exact point where 
Bill and Fleur would shortly be-
come husband and wife. Outside, bu
tterflies and bees were hovering lazily over the grass and hedgerow
. Harry was rather uncomfortable. 
The Muggle boy whose appearance he
 was affecting was slightly fat-
ter than him, and his dress robes fe
lt hot and tight in the full glare 
of a summers day. 
When I get married, said Fred, tu
gging at the collar of his own 
robes, I wont be bothering with 
any of this nonsense. You can all 
wear what you like, and Ill put 
a full Body-Bind Curse on Mum 
until its all over. She wasnt too bad this morning, considering, said George. 
Cried a bit about Percy not being here, but who wants him? Oh 
blimey, brace yourselves  here they come, look. 
Brightly colored figures were appearing, one by one, out of no-
where at the distant boundary of th
e yard. Within minutes a proces-
sion had formed, which began to sn
ake its way up through the garden 
toward the marquee. Exotic flower
s and bewitched birds fluttered on 
the witches hats, while precious gems glittered from many of the 

wizards cravats; a hum of excite
d chatter grew louder and louder, 
drowning the sound of the bees as the crowd approached the tent. 
Excellent, I think I see a few veela cousins, said George, cran-
ing his neck for a better
 look. Theyll need help understanding our 
English customs, Ill lo
ok after them. . . . Not so fast, Your Holeyness, said Fred, and darting past the 
gaggle of middle-aged witches he
ading the procession, he said, 
Here  permettez-moi
 to 
assister vous,
 to a pair of pretty French 
girls, who giggled and allowed him 
to escort them inside. George 
THE  WEDDING  139  was left to deal with the middle-
aged witches and Ron took charge 
of Mr. Weasleys old Ministry colleague Perkins, while a rather deaf 

old couple fell to Harrys lot. Wotcher, said a familiar voice as he came out of the marquee 
again and found Tonks and Lupin at the front of the queue. She 
had turned blonde for the occasion
. Arthur told us you were the 
one with the curly hair. Sorry about last night, she added in a 

whisper as Harry led them up the ai
sle. The Minist
rys being very anti-werewolf at the moment an
d we thought our presence might 
not do you any favors. 
Its fine, I understand, said 
Harry, speaking more to Lupin 
than Tonks. Lupin gave him a swift 
smile, but as they turned away, 
Harry saw Lupins face fall again in
to lines of misery. He did not 
understand it, but there was no time to dwell on the matter: Hagrid 
was causing a certain amount of 
disruption. Having misunderstood 
Freds directions he had sat himsel
f, not upon the magically enlarged 
and reinforced seat set aside for hi
m in the back row, but on five 
seats that now resembled a large 
pile of golden matchsticks. 
While Mr. Weasley repaired the damage and Hagrid shouted 
apologies to anybody who would li
sten, Harry hurried back to the 
entrance to find Ron face-to-face
 with a most eccentric-looking 
wizard. Slightly cross-eyed, with 
shoulder-length white hair the tex-
ture of candyfloss, he wore a cap 
whose tassel dang
led in front of 
his nose and robes of an eye-watering shade of egg-yolk yellow. An 
odd symbol, rather like a triangul
ar eye, glistened from a golden 
chain around his neck. Xenophilius Lovegood, he said, 
extending a hand to Harry, my 
daughter and I live just over the 
hill, so kind of the good Weasleys 
to invite us. But I think you know my Luna? he added to Ron. 
CHAPTER  EIGHT  140  Yes, said Ron. Isnt she with you? 
She lingered in that charming little garden to say hello to the 
gnomes, such a glorious infestation! How few wizards realize just 
how much we can learn from the wi
se little gnomes  or, to give 
them their correct name, the 
Gernumbli gardensi.
 Ours do know a lot of excellent swear words, said Ron, but I 
think Fred and George taught them those. He led a party of warlocks into 
the marquee as Luna rushed up. Hello, Harry! she said. 
Er  my names Barny, said Harry, flummoxed. 

Oh, have you changed that too? she asked brightly. How did you know  ? Oh, just your expression, she said. 
Like her father, Luna was wearing 
bright yellow robes, which she 
had accessorized with a large sunf
lower in her hair. Once you got 
over the brightness of it all, the 
general effect was qu
ite pleasant. At least there were no radishes
 dangling from her ears. 
Xenophilius, who was deep in conv
ersation with an acquaintance, 
had missed the exchange betwee
n Luna and Harry. Bidding the 
wizard farewell, he turned to his 
daughter, who held up her finger 
and said, Daddy, look  one of the gnomes actually bit me! 
How wonderful! Gnome saliva is enormously beneficial! said 
Mr. Lovegood, seizing Lunas outs
tretched finger and examining 
the bleeding puncture marks. Lun
a, my love, if you should feel 
any burgeoning talent today  perh
aps an unexpected urge to sing 
opera or to declaim in Mermish 
 do not repress it! You may have 
been gifted by the Gernumblies! 
Ron, passing them in the opposite direction, let out a loud 
snort. THE  WEDDING  141  Ron can laugh, said Luna ser
enely as Harry led her and Xeno-
philius toward their seats, but my
 father has done a lot of research 
on Gernumbli magic. 
Really? said Harry, who had long since decided not to challenge 
Luna or her fathers peculiar views.
 Are you sure you dont want to 
put anything on that bite, though? 
Oh, its fine, said Luna, suckin
g her finger in a dreamy fashion 
and looking Harry up and down. You look smart. I told Daddy 
most people would probably wear 
dress robes, but he believes you 
ought to wear sun colors to a wedding, for luck, you know. 
As she drifted off after her father
, Ron reappeared with an elderly 
witch clutching his arm. Her be
aky nose, red-rimmed eyes, and 
feathery pink hat gave her the lo
ok of a bad-tempered flamingo. 
. . . and your hairs much t
oo long, Ronald, for a moment I 
thought you were Ginevra. Merlins
 beard, what is Xenophilius 
Lovegood wearing? He looks like
 an omelet. And who are you? 
she barked at Harry. 
Oh yeah, Auntie Muriel, this is our cousin Barny. 
Another Weasley? You breed li
ke gnomes. Isnt Harry Potter 
here? I was hoping to meet him. I 
thought he was a friend of yours, 
Ronald, or have you me
rely been boasting? 
No  he couldnt come  
Hmm. Made an excuse, did he? No
t as gormless as he looks in 
press photographs, then. Ive just 
been instructing the bride on how 
best to wear my tiara, she sh
outed at Harry. Goblin-made, you 
know, and been in my family fo
r centuries. Shes a good-looking 
girl, but still  
French.
 Well, well, find me 
a good seat, Ronald, 
I am a hundred and seven and I ought not to be on my feet too 

long. 
CHAPTER  EIGHT  142  Ron gave Harry a meaningful look as he passed and did not reap-
pear for some time: When next they
 met at the en
trance, Harry had 
shown a dozen more people to their places. The marquee was nearly 
full now, and for the first time
 there was no queue outside. 
Nightmare, Muriel is, said Ron, mopping his forehead on his 
sleeve. She used to come for 
Christmas every year, then, thank 
God, she took offense because Fred and George set off a Dung-

bomb under her chair at dinner. Da
d always says sh
ell have writ-
ten them out of her will  like th
ey care, theyre going to end up 
richer than anyone in the family, ra
te theyre going. . . . Wow, he 
added, blinking rather rapidly as
 Hermione came hurrying toward 
them. You look great! 
Always the tone of surprise, said Hermione, though she smiled. 
She was wearing a floaty, lilac-colored dress with matching high 
heels; her hair was sleek and shiny. Your Great-Aunt Muriel doesnt 

agree, I just met her upstairs whil
e she was giving Fleur the tiara. 
She said, Oh dear, is this the Mu
ggle-born? and then, Bad posture 
and skinny ankles. 
Dont take it personally, shes rude to everyone, said Ron. 
Talking about Muriel? inquired
 George, reemerging from the 
marquee with Fred. Yeah, shes just
 told me my ears are lopsided. 
Old bat. I wish old Uncle Bilius wa
s still with us, though; he was a 
right laugh at weddings. Wasnt he the one who saw a Gr
im and died twenty-four hours 
later? asked Hermione. 
Well, yeah, he went a bit 
odd toward the end, conceded 
George. But before he went loopy he was 
the life and soul of the party, 
said Fred. He used to down an entir
e bottle of firewhisky, then run 
THE  WEDDING  143  onto the dance floor, hoist up his 
robes, and start pulling bunches 
of flowers out of his  
Yes, he sounds a real charme
r, said Hermione, while Harry 
roared with laughter. 
Never married, for some
 reason, said Ron. 
You amaze me, said Hermione. 
They were all laughing so much 
that none of them noticed the 
latecomer, a dark-haired young man 
with a large, curved nose and 
thick black eyebrows, until he held
 out his invitation to Ron and 
said, with his eyes on Hermione, You look vunderful. 
Viktor! she shrieked, and droppe
d her small bead
ed bag, which 
made a loud thump quite disproport
ionate to its size. As she scram-
bled, blushing, to pick it up, she said, I didnt know you were  
goodness  its lovely to see  how are you? Rons ears had turned bright red 
again. After glancing at Krums 
invitation as if he did not believ
e a word of it, he said, much too 
loudly, How come youre here? 
Fleur invited me, said
 Krum, eyebrows raised. Harry, who had no grudge against Krum, shook hands; then, 
feeling that it would be prudent to
 remove Krum from Rons vicin-
ity, offered to show him his seat. 
Your friend is not pleased to see 
me, said Krum as they entered 
the now packed marquee. Or is he
 a relative? he added with a 
glance at Harrys red curly hair. 
Cousin, Harry muttered, but Krum was not really listening. 
His appearance was causing a stir, particularly amongst the veela 
cousins: He was, after all, a famo
us Quidditch player. While people 
were still craning thei
r necks to get a good lo
ok at him, Ron, Her-
mione, Fred, and George came hurrying down the aisle. 
CHAPTER  EIGHT  144  Time to sit down, Fred told Ha
rry, or were going to get run 
over by the bride. 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione took th
eir seats in the second row 
behind Fred and George. Hermione 
looked rather pink and Rons 
ears were still scarlet. After a 
few moments he muttered to Harry, 
Did you see hes grown a stupid little beard? 
Harry gave a noncommittal grunt. 

A sense of jittery anticipation ha
d filled the warm tent, the gen-
eral murmuring broken by occasional spurts of excited laughter. 
Mr. and Mrs. Weasley strolled up 
the aisle, smiling and waving at 
relatives; Mrs. Weasley was wear
ing a brand-new set of amethyst-
colored robes with 
a matching hat. 
A moment later Bill and Charlie stood up at the front of the mar-
quee, both wearing dress robes, wi
th large white roses in their but-
tonholes; Fred wolf-whistled and th
ere was an outbreak of giggling 
from the veela cousins. Then the cr
owd fell silent as music swelled 
from what seemed to be the golden balloons. 
Ooooh! said Hermione, swiveling 
around in her seat to look 
at the entrance. 
A great collective sigh issued 
from the assembled witches and 
wizards as Monsieur Delacour and 
Fleur came walking up the aisle, 
Fleur gliding, Monsieur Delacour bouncing and beaming. Fleur 
was wearing a very simple white dr
ess and seemed to be emitting a 
strong, silvery glow. While her radiance usually dimmed everyone 
else by comparison, today it beautified everybody it fell upon. Ginny 
and Gabrielle, both wearing golden 
dresses, looked even prettier 
than usual, and once Fleur had re
ached him, Bill did not look as 
though he had ever met Fenrir Greyback. 
Ladies and gentlemen, said a slightly singsong voice, and with 
THE  WEDDING  145  a slight shock, Harry saw the same
 small, tufty-haired wizard who 
had presided at Dumbledores funeral, now standing in front of Bill 

and Fleur. We are gathered here 
today to celebrate the union of 
two faithful souls . . . 
Yes, my tiara sets off the whole thing nicely, said Auntie Muriel 
in a rather carrying whisper. But 
I must say, Ginevras dress is far 
too low cut. Ginny glanced around, grinning, 
winked at Harry, then quickly 
faced the front again. Harrys mind
 wandered a long way from the 
marquee, back to afternoons spent 
alone with Ginny in lonely parts 
of the school grounds. They seemed so long ago; they had always 
seemed too good to be true, as th
ough he had been stealing shin-
ing hours from a normal persons 
life, a person without a lightning-
shaped scar on hi
s forehead. . . . 
Do you, William Arthur, take
 Fleur Isabelle . . . ? 
In the front row, Mrs. Weasley 
and Madame Delacour were both 
sobbing quietly into scraps of lace. Trumpetlike sounds from the 
back of the marquee told everyone
 that Hagrid had taken out one 
of his own tablecloth-sized handkerchiefs. Hermione turned and 
beamed at Harry; her eyes 
too were full of tears. . . . then I declare you bonded for life. 
The tufty-haired wizard waved his
 wand high over the heads of 
Bill and Fleur and a shower of silv
er stars fell upon them, spiraling 
around their now entwined figures.
 As Fred and George led a round 
of applause, the golden balloons over
head burst: Birds of paradise 
and tiny golden bells flew and fl
oated out of them, adding their 
songs and chimes to the din. 
Ladies and gentlemen!
 called the tufty-haired wizard. If you 
would please stand up! 
CHAPTER  EIGHT  146  They all did so, Auntie Muriel 
grumbling audibly; he waved his 
wand again. The seats on which th
ey had been sitting rose grace-
fully into the air as the canvas 
walls of the marquee vanished, so 
that they stood beneath a canopy su
pported by golden poles, with 
a glorious view of the sunlit or
chard and surrounding countryside. 
Next, a pool of molten 
gold spread from the center of the tent to 
form a gleaming dance floor; the 
hovering chairs grouped them-
selves around small, white-clothe
d tables, which all floated grace-fully back to earth around it, an
d the golden-jacketed band trooped 
toward a podium. 
Smooth, said Ron approvingly as
 the waiters popped up on all 
sides, some bearing silver trays 
of pumpkin juice, butterbeer, and 
firewhisky, others tottering pi
les of tarts and sandwiches. 
We should go and congratulate them! said Hermione, standing 
on tiptoe to see the place where Bill and Fleur had vanished amid 

a crowd of well-wishers. Well have time later, shrugg
ed Ron, snatching three butter-
beers from a passing tray and handing one to Harry. Hermione, cop 
hold, lets grab a table. . . . No
t there! Nowhere near Muriel  
Ron led the way across the empty 
dance floor, glancing left and 
right as he went: Harry felt sure that he was keeping an eye out for 
Krum. By the time they had reache
d the other side of the marquee, 
most of the tables were occupied
: The emptiest was the one where 
Luna sat alone. 
All right if we join you? asked Ron. 
Oh yes, she said happily. Daddy
s just gone to give Bill and 
Fleur our present. 
What is it, a lifetimes suppl
y of Gurdyroots? asked Ron. 
Hermione aimed a kick at him un
der the table, but caught Harry 
THE  WEDDING  147  instead. Eyes watering in pain, Harry lost track of the conversation 
for a few moments. 
The band had begun to 
play. Bill and Fleur to
ok to the dance floor 
first, to great applause; after a while, Mr. Weasley led Madame Dela-
cour onto the floor, followed by Mrs. Weasley and Fleurs father. 
I like this song, said Luna, swaying in time to the waltzlike 
tune, and a few seconds later she st
ood up and glided onto the dance 
floor, where she revolved on the sp
ot, quite alone, eyes closed and 
waving her arms. Shes great, isnt she? said Ron admiringly. Always good 
value. But the smile vanished from his 
face at once: Viktor Krum had 
dropped into Lunas vacant seat. 
Hermione looked pleasurably flus-
tered, but this time Krum had not come to compliment her. With a 
scowl on his face he 
said, Who is that 
man in the yellow? 
Thats Xenophilius Lovegood, hes th
e father of a friend of ours, 
said Ron. His pugnacious tone indi
cated that they were not about 
to laugh at Xenophilius, despite 
the clear provocation. Come and 
dance, he added abruptly to Hermione. She looked taken aback, but plea
sed too, and got up. They van-
ished together into the growing throng on the dance floor. 
Ah, they are together now? asked Krum, momentarily 
distracted. Er  sort of, said Harry. 
Who are you? Krum asked. 
Barny Weasley. 
They shook hands. 
You, Barny  you know th
is man Lovegood vell? No, I only met him today. Why? CHAPTER  EIGHT  148  Krum glowered over the top of his drink, watching Xenophil-
ius, who was chatting to several warlocks on the other side of the 

dance floor. Because, said Krum, if he vos no
t a guest of Fleur
s, I vould duel 
him, here and now, for vearing th
at filthy sign upon his chest. 
Sign? said Harry, looking over 
at Xenophilius too. The strange 
triangular eye was gleaming on 
his chest. Why
? Whats wrong 
with it? Grindelvald. That is Grindelvalds sign. 
Grindelwald . . . the Dark 
wizard Dumbledore defeated? 
Exactly. Krums jaw muscles worked as if 
he were chewing, then he said, 
Grindelvald killed many people, my grandfather, for instance. Of 
course, he vos never poverful in t
his country, they said he feared 
Dumbledore  and rightly, seeing how he vos finished. But this  

he pointed a finger at Xenophilius 
 this is his symbol, I recognized 
it at vunce: Grindelvald carved it 
into a vall at Durmstrang ven he 
vos a pupil there. Some idiots copied it onto their books and clothes, 
thinking to shock, make themselves
 impressive  until those of us 
who had lost family members to Gr
indelvald taught them better. Krum cracked his knuckles menacingly and glowered at Xenophil-
ius. Harry felt perplexed. It seemed incredibly unlikely that Lunas 
father was a supporter of the Dark 
Arts, and nobody else in the tent 
seemed to have recognized th
e triangular, runelike shape. 
Are you  er  quite sure its Grindelwalds  ? 
I am not mistaken, sa
id Krum coldly. I valked past that sign 
for several years, I know it vell. 
Well, theres a chance, said 
Harry, that Xenophilius doesnt 
actually know what the symbol me
ans. The Lovegoods are quite . . . 
THE  WEDDING  149  unusual. He could easily have pick
ed it up somewhere and think its 
a cross section of the head of 
a Crumple-Horned Snorkack or 
something. 
The cross section of a vot? 
Well, I dont know what they are, but apparently he and his 
daughter go on holiday looking for them. . . . 
Harry felt he was doing a bad 
job explaining Luna and her 
father. Thats her, he said, pointing 
at Luna, who was still dancing 
alone, waving her arms around he
r head like someone attempting 
to beat off midges. 
Vy is she doing that? asked Krum. 
Probably trying to get rid of 
a Wrackspurt, said Harry, who 
recognized the symptoms. 
Krum did not seem to know wh
ether or not Harry was making 
fun of him. He drew his wand fr
om inside his robes and tapped it 
menacingly on his thigh; sp
arks flew out of the end. 
Gregorovitch! said Harry loudly
, and Krum started, but Harry 
was too excited to care; the memory had come back to him at the 
sight of Krums wand: Ollivander 
taking it and examining it care-
fully before the Triwizard Tournament. 
Vot about him? aske
d Krum suspiciously. 
Hes a wandmaker! 

I know that, said Krum. 
He made your wand! Thats why I thought  Quidditch  Krum was looking more and more suspicious. 
How do you know Gregorovitch made my vand? 
I . . . I read it somewhere, I 
think, said Harry.
 In a  a fan 
magazine, he improvised wildly and Krum looked mollified. 
CHAPTER  EIGHT  150  I had not realized I ever discussed my vand with fans, he 
said. So . . . er . . . where is Gregorovitch these days? 
Krum looked puzzled. 
He retired several years ago. I vos one of the last to purchase a 
Gregorovitch vand. They are the be
st  although I know, of course, 
that you Britons set much store by Ollivander. 
Harry did not answer. He pretende
d to watch the dancers, like 
Krum, but he was thinking hard
. So Voldemort was looking for 
a celebrated wandmaker, and Harry 
did not have to search far for a 
reason: It was surely because of 
what Harrys wand had done on the 
night that Voldemort had pursued 
him across the skies. The holly 
and phoenix feather wand had co
nquered the borrowed wand, some-
thing that Ollivander had not an
ticipated or understood. Would 
Gregorovitch know better? Was he truly more skilled than Olli-

vander, did he know secrets of wands that Ollivander did not? 
This girl is very nice-looking, Krum said, recalling Harry to his 
surroundings. Krum was pointing 
at Ginny, who had just joined 
Luna. She is also a relative of yours? 
Yeah, said Harry, suddenly irrita
ted, and shes seeing someone. 
Jealous type. Big blok
e. You wouldnt want to cross him. 
Krum grunted. 
Vot, he said, draining his gobl
et and getting to
 his feet again, 
is the point of being an internat
ional Quidditch player if all the 
good-looking girls are taken? And he strode off, leaving Harry to take a sandwich from a pass-
ing waiter and make his way around
 the edge of the crowded dance 
floor. He wanted to find Ron, to
 tell him about Gregorovitch, but 
Ron was dancing with Hermione 
out in the middle of the floor. 
THE  WEDDING  151  Harry leaned up against one of 
the golden pillars and watched 
Ginny, who was now dancing with Fred and Georges friend Lee 

Jordan, trying not to feel resentfu
l about the promise he had given 
Ron. He had never been to a wedding 
before, so he could not judge 
how Wizarding celebrations differed
 from Muggle ones, though he 
was pretty sure that the latter 
would not involve 
a wedding cake 
topped with two model phoenixes that took flight when the cake 
was cut, or bottles of champagne that floated unsupported through 
the crowd. As evening drew in, and moths began to swoop under 

the canopy, now lit with floating golden lanterns, the revelry became 
more and more uncontained. Fred 
and George had long since dis-
appeared into the darkness with a pa
ir of Fleurs cousins; Charlie, 
Hagrid, and a squat wizard in a 
purple porkpie hat were singing 
Odo the Hero in a corner. 
Wandering through the crowd so as
 to escape a drunken uncle of 
Rons who seemed unsure whether or not Harry was his son, Harry 
spotted an old wizard sitting alone at
 a table. His cloud of white hair 
made him look rather like an aged dandelion clock and was topped 
by a moth-eaten fez. He was vaguely familiar: Racking his brains, 

Harry suddenly realized that this 
was Elphias Doge, member of the 
Order of the Phoenix and the writer of Dumbledores obituary. 
Harry approached him. 

May I sit down? Of course, of course, said Doge
; he had a rather
 high-pitched, 
wheezy voice. 
Harry leaned in. Mr. Doge, Im Harry Potter. 

Doge gasped. CHAPTER  EIGHT  152  My dear boy! Arthur told me you 
were here, disguised. . . . I am 
so glad, so honored! 
In a flutter of nervous pleasure
 Doge poured Harry a goblet of 
champagne. 
I thought of writing to you, he
 whispered, after Dumbledore 
. . . the shock . . . and fo
r you, I am sure . . . Doges tiny eyes fille
d with sudden tears. I saw the obituary you wrote for the 
Daily Prophet,
 said Harry. 
I didnt realize you knew Pr
ofessor Dumbledore so well. 
As well as anyone, said Doge, 
dabbing his eyes with a napkin. 
Certainly I knew him longest, if
 you dont count Aberforth  and 
somehow, people never 
do seem to count Aberforth. 
Speaking of the 
Daily Prophet . . . I dont know whether you 
saw, Mr. Doge  ? 
Oh, please call me Elphias, dear boy. 

Elphias, I dont know whether yo
u saw the interview Rita Skeeter 
gave about Dumbledore? Doges face flooded with angry color. Oh yes, Harry, I saw it. That woman, or vulture might be a more 
accurate term, positively pestered me
 to talk to her. I am ashamed to 
say that I became rather rude, called her an interfering trout, which 
resulted, as you may have
 seen, in aspersions cast upon my sanity. 
Well, in that inte
rview, Harry went on, 
Rita Skeeter hinted 
that Professor Dumbledore was involved in the Dark Arts when he 
was young. 
Dont believe a word of it! said
 Doge at once. Not a word, Harry! 
Let nothing tarnish your memories of Albus Dumbledore! Harry looked into Doges earnest, 
pained face and felt, not reas-
sured, but frustrated. Did Doge real
ly think it was that easy, that 
THE  WEDDING  153  Harry could simply 
choose not to believe? Didnt Doge understand 
Harrys need to be sure, to know 
everything
? Perhaps Doge suspected Harrys feelings, for he looked concerned 
and hurried on, Harry, Rita Skeeter is a dreadful  
But he was interrupted by a shrill cackle. Rita Skeeter? Oh, I love her, always read her! 
Harry and Doge looked up to see 
Auntie Muriel standing there, 
the plumes dancing on her hat, a 
goblet of champagne in her hand. 
Shes written a book abou
t Dumbledore, you know! 
Hello, Muriel, said Doge. Yes
, we were just discussing  
You there! Give me your ch
air, Im a hundred and seven! Another redheaded Weasley cousin jumped off his seat, look-
ing alarmed, and Auntie Muriel sw
ung it around with surprising 
strength and plopped herself 
down upon it between Doge and 
Harry. Hello again, Barry, or whatever yo
ur name is, she said to Harry. 
Now, what were you saying about Rita Skeeter, Elphias? You know 
shes written a biography of Dumbledore? I cant wait to read it, I 
must remember to place an order at Flourish and Blotts! 
Doge looked stiff and solemn at this, but Auntie Muriel drained 
her goblet and clicked her bony fing
ers at a passing waiter for a re-
placement. She took another large 
gulp of champagne, belched, and 
then said, Theres no need to look li
ke a pair of stuffed frogs! Before 
he became so respected and respecta
ble and all that tosh, there were 
some mighty funny rumors about Albus! 
Ill-informed sniping, said 
Doge, turning radish-colored 
again. You would say that, Elphias, ca
ckled Auntie Muriel. I noticed 
how you skated over the sticky patc
hes in that obituary of yours! 
CHAPTER  EIGHT  154  Im sorry you think so, said Doge
, more coldly still. I assure 
you I was writing from the heart. 
Oh, we all know you worshipped Dumbledore; I daresay youll 
still think he was a saint even if it does turn out that he did away 
with his Squib sister! Muriel! exclaimed Doge. 
A chill that had nothing to do 
with the iced champagne was 
stealing through Harrys chest. 
What do you mean? he asked Muri
el. Who said his sister was 
a Squib? I thought she was ill? 
Thought wrong, then, didnt yo
u, Barry! said Auntie Muriel, 
looking delighted at the effect she had produced. Anyway, how 
could you expect to know anything about it? It all happened years 
and years before you were even thought of, my dear, and the truth 
is that those of us wh
o were alive then never 
knew what really hap-
pened. Thats why I cant wait to fi
nd out what Skeeters unearthed! 
Dumbledore kept that sister of
 his quiet for a long time! 
Untrue! wheezed Doge. Absolutely untrue! 
He never told me his sister wa
s a Squib, said Harry, without 
thinking, still cold inside. 
And why on earth would he tell you? screeched Muriel, swaying 
a little in her seat as she at
tempted to focus upon Harry. 
The reason Albus never spoke ab
out Ariana, began Elphias in 
a voice stiff with emotion, is, I should have thought, quite clear. 
He was so devastated by her death  
Why did nobody ever see her,
 Elphias? squawked Muriel. 
Why did half of us never even know she existed, until they car-
ried the coffin out of the house 
and held a funeral for her? Where 
was saintly Albus while Ariana was 
locked in the cellar? Off being 
THE  WEDDING  155  brilliant at Hogwarts, and never 
mind what was going on in his 
own house! What dyou mean, locked in the cellar? asked Harry. What 
is this? 
Doge looked wretched. Auntie 
Muriel cackled again and an-
swered Harry. 
Dumbledores mother was a terrify
ing woman, simply terrifying. 
Muggle-born, though I heard she pretended otherwise  
She never pretended anything of the sort! Kendra was a fine 
woman, whispered Doge miserabl
y, but Auntie Muriel ignored 
him.  proud and very domineering, the sort of witch who would 
have been mortified to
 produce a Squib  
Ariana was not a Squib! wheezed Doge. 
So you say, Elphias, but explai
n, then, why she never attended 
Hogwarts! said Auntie Muriel. Sh
e turned back to Harry. In our 
day, Squibs were often hushed up, 
though to take it to the extreme 
of actually imprisoning a little girl in the house and pretending she 
didnt exist  I tell you, thats not what ha
ppened! said Doge, but Auntie 
Muriel steamrollered on, still addressing Harry. 
Squibs were usually shipped off to Muggle schools and encour-
aged to integrate into the Muggle 
community . . . much kinder than trying to find them a place in th
e Wizarding world, where they must 
always be second cla
ss; but naturally Kendra
 Dumbledore wouldnt 
have dreamed of letting her daughter go to a Muggle school  
Ariana was delicate! said Doge desperately. Her health was 
always too poor to permit her  
 to permit her to leave the 
house? cackled Muriel. And yet 
CHAPTER  EIGHT  156  she was never taken to St. Mungo
s and no Healer was ever sum-
moned to see her! 
Really, Muriel, how you can 
possibly know whether  For your information, Elphias, 
my cousin Lancelot was a Healer 
at St. Mungos at the time, and he told my family in strictest con-
fidence that Ariana had never been seen there. All most suspicious, 
Lancelot thought! 
Doge looked to be on the verge of tears. Auntie Muriel, who 
seemed to be enjoying herself 
hugely, snapped her fingers for 
more champagne. Numbly Harry thought of how the Dursleys had 

once shut him up, locked him away, kept him out of sight, all for 
the crime of being a wizard. Had Dumbledores sister suffered the 
same fate in reverse: imprisoned
 for her lack of
 magic? And had 
Dumbledore truly left her to her fate while he went off to Hogwarts, 
to prove himself bri
lliant and talented? Now, if Kendra hadnt died firs
t, Muriel resumed, Id have 
said that it was she who 
finished off Ariana  
How can you, Muriel? groaned 
Doge. A mother kill her own 
daughter? Think what you are saying! 
If the mother in question was capable of imprisoning her daugh-
ter for years on end, why not? sh
rugged Auntie Muriel. But as 
I say, it doesnt fit, because Kend
ra died before Ariana  of what, 
nobody ever seemed sure  
Oh, no doubt Ariana murdered 
her, said Doge with a brave 
attempt at scorn. Why not? 
Yes, Ariana might have made a desperate bid for freedom and 
killed Kendra in the struggle, said Auntie Muriel thoughtfully. 
Shake your head all you like, Elphias! You were at Arianas funeral, 

were you not? 
THE  WEDDING  157  Yes I was, said Doge, through trembling lips. And a more desper-
ately sad occasion I cannot remember. Albus was heartbroken  
His heart wasnt the only thing.
 Didnt Aberforth break Albuss 
nose halfway through the service? 
If Doge had looked horrified before this, it was nothing to how he 
looked now. Muriel might have stabbed him. She cackled loudly and 
took another swig of champagne, which dribbled down her chin. 
How do you  ? croaked Doge. My mother was friendly with old Bathilda Bagshot, said Auntie 
Muriel happily. Bathilda described the whole thing to Mother while 

I was listening at the door. A coffi
n-side brawl! The way Bathilda 
told it, Aberforth shouted that it 
was all Albuss fault that Ariana 
was dead and then punched him in the face. According to Bathilda, 
Albus did not even defend himself,
 and thats odd enough in itself, 
Albus could have destroyed Aberfo
rth in a duel with both hands 
tied behind his back. Muriel swigged yet more champagne. The recitation of these old 
scandals seemed to elate her as mu
ch as they horrified Doge. Harry 
did not know what to t
hink, what to believe: 
He wanted the truth, 
and yet all Doge did was sit there and bleat feebly that Ariana had 

been ill. Harry could hardly beli
eve that Dumbledore would not 
have intervened if such cruelty wa
s happening inside his own house, 
and yet there was undoubtedly something odd about the story. And Ill tell you something else,
 Muriel said, hic
cuping slightly 
as she lowered her goblet. I think 
Bathilda has spilled the beans to 
Rita Skeeter. All those hints in Sk
eeters interview about an impor-
tant source close to the Dumb
ledores  goodness knows she was 
there all through the Ariana business, and it would fit! 
Bathilda would never talk to Ri
ta Skeeter! whispered Doge. 
CHAPTER  EIGHT  158  Bathilda Bagshot? Harry said. The author of 
A History of 
Magic
? The name was printed on the front of one of Harrys text-
books, though admittedly not one 
of the ones he had read most 
attentively. Yes, said Doge, clutching at Harrys question like a drown-
ing man at a life belt. A most gi
fted magical historian and an old 
friend of Albuss. 
Quite gaga these days, Ive he
ard, said Auntie Muriel cheer-
fully. 
If that is so, it is even more 
dishonorable for Skeeter to have 
taken advantage of her, said Doge, and no reliance can be placed 
on anything Bathilda
 may have said! 
Oh, there are ways of bringing ba
ck memories, and Im sure Rita 
Skeeter knows them all, said Auntie Muriel. But even if Bathildas 

completely cuckoo, Im sure shed 
still have old ph
otographs, maybe 
even letters. She knew the Dumbledor
es for years. . . . Well worth 
a trip to Godrics Holl
ow, Id have thought. Harry, who had been taking a si
p of butterbeer, choked. Doge 
banged him on the back as Harry 
coughed, looking at Auntie Mu-
riel through streaming eyes. Once he
 had control of his voice again, 
he asked, Bathilda Bagshot lives in Godrics Hollow? 
Oh yes, shes been there forever! The Dumbledores moved there 
after Percival was imprisoned, 
and she was their neighbor. The Dumbledores lived 
in Godrics Hollow? Yes, Barry, thats what I just said, said Auntie Muriel testily. 
Harry felt drained, empty. Never 
once, in six years, had Dum-
bledore told Harry that they had 
both lived and lost loved ones 
in Godrics Hollow. Why? Were 
Lily and James buried close to 
THE  WEDDING  159  Dumbledores mother and sister
? Had Dumbledore visited their graves, perhaps walked past Lilys
 and Jamess to do so? And he had 
never once told Ha
rry . . . never both
ered to say . . . And why it was so important, 
Harry could not explain even to 
himself, yet he felt it had been tant
amount to a lie not to tell him 
that they had this place and these experiences in common. He stared 
ahead of him, barely noticing wh
at was going on around him, and 
did not realize that Hermione had 
appeared out of the crowd until 
she drew up a chair beside him. 
I simply cant dance anymore, 
she panted, slipping off one of 
her shoes and rubbing the sole of her foot. Rons gone looking to 
find more butterbeers. Its a bit od
d, Ive just seen Viktor storming 
away from Lunas father, it looked
 like theyd been arguing  She 
dropped her voice, staring at him. Harry, are you okay? 
Harry did not know where to begi
n, but it did not matter. At 
that moment, something large and silver came falling through the 
canopy over the dance floor. Gracef
ul and gleaming, the lynx landed 
lightly in the middle of the astoni
shed dancers. Heads turned, as 
those nearest it froze absurdly in
 mid-dance. Then the Patronuss 
mouth opened wide and it spoke in
 the loud, deep, slow voice of 
Kingsley Shacklebolt. The Ministry has fallen. Scrimgeo
ur is dead. They are coming.
 C H A P T E R  N I N E   160  A PLACE TO HIDE 
   verything seemed fuzzy, slow
. Harry and Hermione jumped 
to their feet and drew their wa
nds. Many people were only 
just realizing that so
mething strange had happened; heads were still 
turning toward the silver cat as it
 vanished. Silence spread outward 
in cold ripples from the place where the Patronus had landed. Then 
somebody screamed. Harry and Hermione threw themselves into the panicking crowd. 
Guests were sprinting in all dire
ctions; many were Disapparating; 
the protective enchantments around the Burrow had broken. Ron! Hermione cried.
 Ron, where are you? 
As they pushed their way ac
ross the dance floor, Harry saw cloaked and masked figures appear
ing in the crowd; then he saw 
Lupin and Tonks, their wands raised
, and heard both of them shout, 
Protego
!, a cry that was echoed on all sides  
Ron! Ron! Hermione called, ha
lf sobbing as she and Harry 
were buffeted by terrified guests
: Harry seized her hand to make 
E A  PLACE TO HIDE  161  sure they werent separated as a streak of light whizzed over their 
heads, whether a protective charm 
or something more sinister he 
did not know  And then Ron was there. He ca
ught hold of Hermiones free 
arm, and Harry felt her turn on the spot; sight and sound were ex-
tinguished as darkness pressed in
 upon him; all he could feel was 
Hermiones hand as he was squeez
ed through space and time, away 
from the Burrow, away from th
e descending Death Eaters, away, perhaps, from Voldemort himself. . . . 
Where are we? said Rons voice. 

Harry opened his eyes. For a mom
ent he thought they had not 
left the wedding after all: They 
still seemed to be surrounded by 
people. 
Tottenham Court Road, panted Hermione. Walk, just walk, 
we need to find somewh
ere for you to change. 
Harry did as she asked. They half
 walked, half ran up the wide 
dark street thronged with late-nig
ht revelers and lined with closed 
shops, stars twinkling above them
. A double-decker bus rumbled by 
and a group of merry pub-goers ogle
d them as they passed; Harry 
and Ron were still wearing dress robes. 
Hermione, we havent got anything 
to change into, Ron told her, 
as a young woman burst into rauc
ous giggles at the sight of him. 
Why didnt I make sure I had th
e Invisibility Cloak with me? 
said Harry, inwardly curs
ing his own stupidity. A
ll last year I kept 
it on me and  Its okay, Ive got the Cloak, I
ve got clothes for both of you, 
said Hermione. Just try and act 
naturally until  this will do. She led them down a side street, 
then into the shelter of a shad-
owy alleyway. CHAPTER  NINE  162  When you say youve got the Cloak,
 and clothes . . . said Harry, 
frowning at Hermione, who was ca
rrying nothing except her small 
beaded handbag, in which she was now rummaging. 
Yes, theyre here, said Hermio
ne, and to Harry and Rons ut-
ter astonishment, she pulled out a pa
ir of jeans, a sweatshirt, some 
maroon socks, and finally the 
silvery Invisibility Cloak. 
How the ruddy hell  ? 
Undetectable Extension Charm, 
said Hermione. Tricky, but I 
think Ive done it okay; 
anyway, I managed to fit everything we need 
in here. She gave the fragile-lookin
g bag a little shake and it echoed 
like a cargo hold as a number of heavy objects rolled around inside 
it. Oh, damn, thatll be the books,
 she said, peering into it, and I 
had them all stacked by subject. . 
. . Oh well. . . . Harry, youd better 
take the Invisibility Cloak. Ro
n, hurry up and change. . . . 
When did you do all this? Harry
 asked as Ron stripped off his 
robes. 
I told you at the Burrow, Ive ha
d the essentials packed for days, 
you know, in case we needed to 
make a quick getaway. I packed 
your rucksack this morning, Harr
y, after you changed, and put it 
in here. . . . I just had a feeling. . . . 
Youre amazing, you are, said
 Ron, handing her his bundled-
up robes. 
Thank you, said Hermione, ma
naging a small smile as she 
pushed the robes into the bag. Please, Harry, get that Cloak on! Harry threw the Invisibility Cl
oak around his shoulders and 
pulled it up over his head, vanishing from sight. He was only just 
beginning to appreciate
 what had happened. The others  everyone at the wedding  
 A  PLACE TO HIDE  163  We cant worry about that now,
 whispered Hermione. Its you 
theyre after, Harry, and well just put everyone in even more danger 

by going back. 
Shes right, said Ron, who seemed to know that Harry was 
about to argue, even if he could no
t see his face. Most of the Order 
was there, theyll lo
ok after everyone. 
Harry nodded, then remembered th
at they could 
not see him, and said, Yeah. But he thought 
of Ginny, and fear bubbled like 
acid in his stomach. 
Come on, I think we ought to keep moving, said Hermione. 

They moved back up the side street and onto the main road again, 
where a group of men on the opposi
te side was singing and weaving 
across the pavement. 
Just as a matter of interest, 
why Tottenham Court Road? Ron 
asked Hermione. 
Ive no idea, it just popped into 
my head, but Im sure were safer 
out in the Muggle world, its not 
where theyll expect us to be. 
True, said Ron, looking arou
nd, but dont you feel a bit 
 exposed? Where else is there? asked He
rmione, cringing as the men on 
the other side of the road starte
d wolf-whistling at her. We can 
hardly book rooms at the Leak
y Cauldron, can we? And Grimmauld 
Place is out if Snape ca
n get in there. . . . I suppose we could try my 
parents house, though I think th
eres a chance they might check 
there. . . . Oh, I wish theyd shut up! 
All right, darling? the drunkest
 of the men on 
the other pave-
ment was yelling. Fancy a drink? 
Ditch ginger and come and have 
a pint! 

 CHAPTER  NINE  164  Lets sit down somewhere, Hermione said hastily as Ron opened 
his mouth to shout back across th
e road. Look, this will do, in 
here! 
It was a small and shabby all-nigh
t caf. A light layer of grease 
lay on all the Formica-topped tabl
es, but it was at least empty. 
Harry slipped into a booth first an
d Ron sat next to him opposite 
Hermione, who had her back to th
e entrance and did not like it: 
She glanced over her shoulder so frequently she appeared to have a 
twitch. Harry did not like being stationary; walking had given the 
illusion that they had a goal. Be
neath the Cloak he could feel the 
last vestiges of Polyjuice leaving 
him, his hands returning to their 
usual length and shape. He pulled his glasses out of his pocket and 
put them on again. 
After a minute or two, Ron said, You know, were not far from 
the Leaky Cauldron here, its
 only in Charing Cross  Ron, we cant! said Hermione at once. 
Not to stay there, but to 
find out whats going on! 
We know whats goin
g on! Voldemorts taken over the Ministry, 
what else do we need to know? 
Okay, okay, it was just an idea! 
They relapsed into a prickly si
lence. The gum-chewing waitress 
shuffled over and Hermione ordered two cappuccinos: As Harry 
was invisible, it would have looked
 odd to order him one. A pair of 
burly workmen entered the caf an
d squeezed into the next booth. 
Hermione dropped her voice to a whisper. 
I say we find a quiet place to Disapparate and head for the coun-
tryside. Once were there, we co
uld send a message to the Order. 
Can you do that talking Patronus thing, then? asked Ron. Ive been practicing and I 
think so, said Hermione. 
A  PLACE TO HIDE  165  Well, as long as it doesnt get 
them into trouble, though they 
mightve been arrested already. G
od, thats revolting, Ron added 
after one sip of the foamy, grayis
h coffee. The waitress had heard; 
she shot Ron a nasty look as she shuffled off to take the new cus-
tomers orders. The larger of th
e two workmen, who was blond and 
quite huge, now that Harry came to
 look at him, waved her away. 
She stared, affronted. 
Lets get going, then, I dont want
 to drink this muck, said Ron. 
Hermione, have you got Mugg
le money to pay for this? 
Yes, I took out all my Building 
Society savings before I came to 
the Burrow. Ill bet all the change 
is at the bottom, sighed Hermi-
one, reaching for her beaded bag. 
The two workmen made identical
 movements, and Harry mir-
rored them without conscious thou
ght: All three of them drew 
their wands. Ron, a few seconds la
te in realizing what was going 
on, lunged across the table, push
ing Hermione sideways onto her 
bench. The force of the Death Eaters
 spells shattered the tiled wall 
where Rons head had just been, as
 Harry, still invisible, yelled, 
Stupefy
! The great blond Death Eater was hit
 in the face by a jet of red 
light: He slumped sideways, unconscious. His companion, unable 
to see who had cast the spell, fi
red another at Ron: Shining black 
ropes flew from his wand-tip an
d bound Ron head to foot  the 
waitress screamed and ran for th
e door  Harry sent another Stun-
ning Spell at the Death Eater with 
the twisted face who had tied up 
Ron, but the spell missed, reboun
ded on the window, and hit the 
waitress, who collapsed in front of the door. Expulso
! bellowed the Death Eater, 
and the table behind which 
Harry was standing blew up: The 
force of the explosion slammed 
CHAPTER  NINE  166  him into the wall and he felt his 
wand leave his hand as the Cloak 
slipped off him. 
Petrificus Totalus
! screamed Hermione from out of sight, and the 
Death Eater fell forward like a statue
 to land with a crunching thud 
on the mess of broken china, tabl
e, and coffee. Hermione crawled 
out from underneath the bench, shak
ing bits of glass ashtray out of 
her hair and trembling all over. 
D-diffindo,
 she said, pointing her wand
 at Ron, who roared in 
pain as she slashed open the knee of
 his jeans, leaving a deep cut. 
Oh, Im so sorry, Ron,
 my hands shaking! 
Diffindo! The severed ropes fell away. Ron go
t to his feet, shaking his arms 
to regain feeling in them. Harry 
picked up his wand and climbed 
over all the debris to where the large blond Death Eater was sprawled 
across the bench. 
I shouldve recognized him, he
 was there the night Dumbledore 
died, he said. He turned over the darker Death Eater with his foot; 
the mans eyes moved rapidly between Harry, Ron, and Hermione. 
Thats Dolohov, said Ron. I re
cognize him from the old wanted 
posters. I think the big 
ones Thorfinn Rowle. 
Never mind what theyre called! said Hermione a little hysteri-
cally. How did they find us
? What are we going to do? 
Somehow her panic seemed 
to clear Harrys head. 
Lock the door, he told her, a
nd Ron, turn out the lights. He looked down at the paralyzed 
Dolohov, thinking fast as the 
lock clicked and Ron used the Delu
minator to plunge the caf into 
darkness. Harry could hear the m
en who had jeered at Hermione 
earlier, yelling at anothe
r girl in the distance. 
What are we going to do with 
them? Ron whispered to Harry  
 A  PLACE TO HIDE  167  through the dark; then, even more qu
ietly, Kill them? Theyd kill 
us. They had a good go just now. Hermione shuddered and took 
a step backward. Harry shook 
his head. 
We just need to wipe
 their memories, said
 Harry. Its better 
like that, itll throw them off the scent. If we killed them itd be 
obvious we were here. 
Youre the boss, said Ron, soun
ding profoundly relieved. But 
Ive never done a Memory Charm. 
Nor have I, said Hermione, but I know the theory. 

She took a deep, calming breath, then pointed her wand at Dolo-
hovs forehead and said, 
Obliviate. At once, Dolohovs eyes be
came unfocused and dreamy. Brilliant! said Harry, clapping 
her on the back. Take care of 
the other one and the waitress 
while Ron and I clear up. 
Clear up? said Ron, looking 
around at the partly destroyed 
caf. Why? 
Dont you think they might wo
nder whats happened if they 
wake up and find themselves in a pl
ace that looks like
 its just been 
bombed? 
Oh right, yeah . . . Ron struggled for a moment before
 managing to extract his wand 
from his pocket. 
Its no wonder I cant get it out, Hermione, you packed my old 
jeans, theyre tight. Oh, Im so sorry, hissed Herm
ione, and as she dragged the 
waitress out of sight of the win
dows, Harry heard her mutter a sug-
gestion as to where Ron coul
d stick his wand instead. 
 CHAPTER  NINE  168  Once the caf was restored to its 
previous condition, they heaved 
the Death Eaters back 
into their booth and propped them up fac-
ing each other. 
But how did they find us? Hermione asked, looking from one 
inert man to the other. How did they know where we were? 
She turned to Harry. 
You  you dont think youve st
ill got your Trace on you, do 
you, Harry? 
He cant have, said Ron. The 
Trace breaks at seventeen, thats 
Wizarding law, you cant put it on an adult. 
As far as you know, said Herm
ione. What if the Death Eaters 
have found a way to put it
 on a seventeen-year-old? But Harry hasnt been near a Death 
Eater in the last twenty-four 
hours. Whos supposed to have put a Trace back on him? 
Hermione did not reply. Harry fe
lt contaminated, tainted: Was 
that really how the Death Eaters had found them? If I cant use magic, and you 
cant use magic near me, without 
us giving away our position  he began. 
Were not splitting up! said Hermione firmly. 
We need a safe place to hide, said
 Ron. Give us time to think 
things through. Grimmauld Place, said Harry. 
The other two gaped. 
Dont be silly, Harry, 
Snape can get in there! Rons dad said theyve put up 
jinxes against him  and even if 
they havent worked, he pressed 
on as Hermione began to argue, 
so what? I swear, Id like noth
ing better than to meet Snape! 
But  

Hermione, where else is there? 
Its the best chance weve got. 
A  PLACE TO HIDE  169  Snapes only one Death Eater. If Ive still got the Trace on me, well 
have whole crowds of them on us wherever else we go. 
She could not argue, though she looked as if she would have liked 
to. While she unlocked the caf
 door, Ron clicked the Delumina-
tor to release the cafs light. Th
en, on Harrys count of three, they 
reversed the spells upon their thr
ee victims, and before the waitress 
or either of the Death Eaters coul
d do more than stir sleepily, Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione had turned on 
the spot and vanished into the 
compressing darkness once more. 
Seconds later Harrys lungs expa
nded gratefully and he opened 
his eyes: They were now standing in
 the middle of a familiar small 
and shabby square. Tall, dilapida
ted houses looked down on them 
from every side. Number twelve wa
s visible to them, for they had 
been told of its existence by Dumb
ledore, its Secret-Keeper, and they rushed toward it, checking every 
few yards that they were not be-
ing followed or observed. They raced up the stone steps, and Harry 
tapped the front door once with his
 wand. They heard a series of 
metallic clicks and the clatter of
 a chain, then the door swung open 
with a creak and they hurr
ied over the threshold. As Harry closed the door behind them, the old-fashioned gas 
lamps sprang into life, casting flickering light along the length of the 
hallway. It looked just as Harry 
remembered it: eerie, cobwebbed, 
the outlines of the house-elf head
s on the wall throwing odd shad-
ows up the staircase. Long dark cu
rtains concealed 
the portrait of 
Siriuss mother. The only thing that was out of place was the trolls 
leg umbrella stand, which was lying on its side as if Tonks had just 
knocked it over again. I think somebodys been in here
, Hermione whispered, point-
ing toward it. 
CHAPTER  NINE  170  That couldve happened as the Order left, Ron murmured 
back. So where are these jinxes they put up against Snape? Harry 
asked. 
Maybe theyre only activated if he shows up? suggested Ron. 
Yet they remained close together
 on the doormat, backs against 
the door, scared to move 
farther into the house. Well, we cant stay here forever,
 said Harry, and he took a step 
forward. 
Severus Snape
? Mad-Eye Moodys voice whispered out of the darkness, making 
all three of them jump back in 
fright. Were no
t Snape! croaked 
Harry, before something whooshed over him like cold air and his 
tongue curled backward on itself
, making it impossible to speak. 
Before he had time to feel inside
 his mouth, however, his tongue 
had unraveled again. The other two seemed to have ex
perienced the same unpleasant 
sensation. Ron was making retchi
ng noises; Hermione stammered, 
That m-must have b-been the T-Tongue-Tying Curse Mad-Eye set 
up for Snape! 
Gingerly Harry took another step forward. Something shifted 
in the shadows at the end of the ha
ll, and before any of them could 
say another word, a figure had risen 
up out of the carpet, tall, dust-
colored, and terrible: Hermione sc
reamed and so did Mrs. Black, 
her curtains flying open; the gray
 figure was gliding toward them, 
faster and faster, its waist-length 
hair and beard streaming behind it, 
its face sunken, fleshless, with em
pty eye sockets: Horribly familiar, 
dreadfully altered, it raised a wasted arm, pointing at Harry. 
 A  PLACE TO HIDE  171  No! Harry shouted, and though he
 had raised his wand no spell 
occurred to him. No! It wasn
t us! We didnt kill you  
On the word 
kill, the figure exploded in 
a great cloud of dust: 
Coughing, his eyes watering, Harry looked around to see Hermione 
crouched on the floor by the door 
with her arms over her head, and 
Ron, who was shaking from head to
 foot, patting her clumsily on 
the shoulder and saying, Its all r-
right. . . . Its g-gone. . . . 
Dust swirled around Harry like mi
st, catching the blue gaslight, 
as Mrs. Black cont
inued to scream. 
Mudbloods, filth, stains of dishon
or, taint of shame on the house of 
my fathers  
SHUT UP! Harry bellowed, directing his wand at her, and 
with a bang and a burst of red 
sparks, the curtains swung shut 
again, silencing her. That . . . that was . . . Hermione whimpered, as Ron helped 
her to her feet. 
Yeah, said Harry, but it wasnt really him, was it? Just some-
thing to scare Snape. 
Had it worked, Harry wondered, or had Snape already blasted 
the horror-figure aside as
 casually as he had ki
lled the real Dumble-
dore? Nerves still tingling, he le
d the other two up the hall, half-
expecting some new terror to reveal itself, but nothing moved except 
for a mouse skittering al
ong the skirting board. 
Before we go any farther, I thin
k wed better check, whispered 
Hermione, and she raised her wand and said, 
Homenum revelio.
 Nothing happened. 
Well, youve just had a big sh
ock, said Ron kindly. What was 
that supposed to do? 
 CHAPTER  NINE  172  It did what I meant it to do! said Hermione rather crossly. 
That was a spell to reveal human presence, and theres nobody 

here except us! 
And old Dusty, said Ron, glancing at the patch of carpet from 
which the corpse-figure had risen. 
Lets go up, said Hermione with
 a frightened look at the same 
spot, and she led the way up the crea
king stairs to the drawing room 
on the first floor. 
Hermione waved her wand to ig
nite the old gas lamps, then, 
shivering slightly in the drafty 
room, she perched on the sofa, her 
arms wrapped tightly around her. Ron crossed to the window and 
moved the heavy velvet 
curtain aside an inch. Cant see anyone out there, he 
reported. And youd think, if 
Harry still had a Trace on him, theyd have followed us here. I know 
they cant get in the house, but  whats up, Harry? 
Harry had given a cry of pain: His scar had burned again as some-
thing flashed across his mind like a 
bright light on water. He saw a 
large shadow and felt a fury that
 was not his own pound through 
his body, violent and brief as an electric shock. 
What did you see? Ron asked, 
advancing on Harry. Did you 
see him at my place? 
No, I just felt anger  hes really angry  
But that could be at the Burrow, said Ron loudly. What else? 
Didnt you see anything? 
Was he cursing someone? 
No, I just felt anger  I couldnt tell  
Harry felt badgered, confused, an
d Hermione did not help as she 
said in a frightened voice, Your scar, again? But whats going on? I 
thought that connection had closed! 
It did, for a while, muttered Ha
rry; his scar was still painful, 
A  PLACE TO HIDE  173  which made it hard to concentrate. 
I  I think its started opening 
again whenever he loses control, thats how it used to  
But then youve got to close your mind! said Hermione shrilly. 
Harry, Dumbledore didnt want yo
u to use that connection, he 
wanted you to shut it down, that
s why you were supposed to use 
Occlumency! Otherwise Voldemort ca
n plant false images in your 
mind, remember  
Yeah, I do remember, thanks, sa
id Harry through gritted teeth; 
he did not need Hermione to tell him that Voldemort had once used 
this selfsame connection between them
 to lead him into a trap, nor 
that it had resulted in Siriuss death. He wished that he had not told 
them what he had seen and felt; 
it made Voldemort more threaten-
ing, as though he were pressing against the window of the room, 
and still the pain in his scar was building and he fought it: It was 
like resisting the urge to be sick. 
He turned his back on Ron and Hermione, pretending to exam-
ine the old tapestry of the Black fa
mily tree on the wall. Then Her-
mione shrieked: Harry drew his wand
 again and spun around to see 
a silver Patronus soar through th
e drawing room window and land 
upon the floor in front of them, where it solidified into the weasel 

that spoke with the voice of Rons father. 
Family safe, do not repl
y, we are being watched. The Patronus dissolved into nothingness. Ron let out a noise be-
tween a whimper and a groan and 
dropped onto the sofa: Hermione 
joined him, gripping his arm. Theyre all right, theyre all ri
ght! she whispered, and Ron half 
laughed and hugged her. Harry, he said over Hermiones shoulder, I  
Its not a problem, said Harry, si
ckened by the pain in his head. 
CHAPTER  NINE  174  Its your family, course youre wo
rried. Id feel the same way. He 
thought of Ginny. I do feel the same way. 
The pain in his scar was reaching a peak, burning as it had done 
in the garden of the Burrow. Faintly he heard Hermione say, I dont 
want to be on my own. Could we 
use the sleeping bags Ive brought 
and camp in here tonight? 
He heard Ron agree. He could no
t fight the pain much longer: 
He had to succumb. 
Bathroom, he muttered, and he left
 the room as fast as he could 
without running. He barely made it: Bolting the 
door behind him with trembling 
hands, he grasped his pounding he
ad and fell to the floor, then in 
an explosion of agony, he felt the rage that did not belong to him 
possess his soul, saw a long room lit only by firelight, and the great 
blond Death Eater on the floor, screaming and writhing, and a 

slighter figure standing over hi
m, wand outstretched, while Harry 
spoke in a high, cold, merciless voice. 
More, Rowle, or shall we end 
it and feed you to Nagini? Lord 
Voldemort is not sure that he will
 forgive this time. . . . You called 
me back for this, to tell me that
 Harry Potter has escaped again? 
Draco, give Rowle another taste of 
our displeasure. . . . Do it, or 
feel my wrath yourself! 
A log fell in the fire: Flames re
ared, their light darting across a terrified, pointed white face  with
 a sense of emerging from deep 
water, Harry drew heaving br
eaths and opened his eyes. 
He was spread-eagled on the cold black marble floor, his nose 
inches from one of the silver serp
ent tails that supported the large 
bathtub. He sat up. Malfoys gaunt,
 petrified face seemed branded  
 A  PLACE TO HIDE  175  on the inside of his eyes. Harry fe
lt sickened by what he had seen, 
by the use to which Draco was 
now being put by Voldemort. 
There was a sharp rap on the 
door, and Harry jumped as Hermi-
ones voice rang out. Harry, do you want your toothbrush? Ive got it here. 
Yeah, great, thanks, he said, fi
ghting to keep his voice casual 
as he stood up to let her in. C H A P T E R  T E N   176  KREACHER
S TALE 
  arry woke early next morning, wrapped in a sleeping 
bag on the drawing room floo
r. A chink of sky was vis-
ible between the heavy curtains: It wa
s the cool, clear blue of watered 
ink, somewhere between night an
d dawn, and everything was quiet 
except for Ron and Hermiones slow, deep breathing. Harry glanced 
over at the dark shapes they ma
de on the floor beside him. Ron 
had had a fit of gallantry and insi
sted that Hermione sleep on the 
cushions from the sofa, so that he
r silhouette was raised above his. 
Her arm curved to the floor, her fingers inches from Rons. Harry 
wondered whether they had fallen 
asleep holding hands. The idea 
made him feel strangely lonely. 
He looked up at the shadowy 
ceiling, the cobwebbed chande-
lier. Less than twenty-four hours ag
o, he had been standing in the 
sunlight at the entrance to the 
marquee, waiting to show in wed-
ding guests. It seemed a lifetime
 away. What was going to happen 
now? He lay on the floor and he thought of the Horcruxes, of the 
H KREACHERS  TALE  177  daunting, complex mission Dumbledore had left him. . . . Dumble-
dore . . . The grief that had possessed him 
since Dumbledores death felt 
different now. The accusations he 
had heard from Muriel at the 
wedding seemed to have nested in his brain like diseased things, 
infecting his memories of the wi
zard he had idolized. Could Dum-
bledore have let such things ha
ppen? Had he been like Dudley, 
content to watch 
neglect and abuse as long 
as it did not affect him? 
Could he have turned his back on a sister who was being impris-
oned and hidden? Harry thought of Godrics Hollow, of graves Dumbledore had 
never mentioned there; he thought 
of mysterious objects left with-
out explanation in Dumbledores wi
ll, and resentment swelled in 
the darkness. Why hadnt Dumble
dore told him? Why hadnt he 
explained? Had Dumbledore actually
 cared about Harry at all? Or 
had Harry been nothing more than a tool to be polished and honed, but not trusted, never confided in? 
Harry could not stand lying there with nothing but bitter 
thoughts for company. Desperate for something to do, for distrac-
tion, he slipped out of his sleepi
ng bag, picked up his wand, and 
crept out of the room. On the landing he whispered, 
Lumos, and started to climb the stairs by wandlight. 
On the second landing was the bedroom in which he and Ron 
had slept last time they had been 
here; he glanced into it. The ward-
robe doors stood open and the bedc
lothes had been ripped back. 
Harry remembered the overturned 
troll leg downstairs. Somebody 
had searched the house since the Or
der had left. Snape? Or perhaps 
Mundungus, who had pilfered plenty
 from this house both before 
and after Sirius died? Harrys gaze wandered to the portrait that 
CHAPTER  TEN  178  sometimes contained Phineas Nigell
us Black, Siriuss great-great-
grandfather, but it was empty, showing nothing but a stretch of 

muddy backdrop. Phineas Nigellus was evidently spending the night 
in the headmasters study at Hogwarts. 
Harry continued up the stairs until he reached the topmost 
landing, where there were only
 two doors. The one facing him 
bore a nameplate reading 
Sirius
. Harry had never entered his 
godfathers bedroom before. He pushed open the door, holding 
his wand high to cast light as widely as possible. The room was 
spacious and must once have b
een handsome. There was a large 
bed with a carved wooden headbo
ard, a tall window obscured 
by long velvet curtains, and a ch
andelier thickly coated in dust 
with candle stubs still resting in
 its sockets, solid wax hanging 
in frostlike drips. A fine film of dust covered the pictures on the 
walls and the beds headboard; a spiders web stretched between 

the chandelier and the top of th
e large wooden wardrobe, and as Harry moved deeper into the room, he heard a scurrying of dis-
turbed mice. 
The teenage Sirius had plastered the walls with so many post-
ers and pictures that little of the 
walls silvery-gray silk was visible. 
Harry could only assume that Siri
uss parents had been unable to 
remove the Permanent Sticking Char
m that kept them on the wall, 
because he was sure they would no
t have appreciated their eldest 
sons taste in decoration. Sirius se
emed to have gone out of his way 
to annoy his parents. There were 
several large Gryffindor banners, 
faded scarlet and gold, just to un
derline his difference from all the 
rest of the Slytherin family. There were many pictures of Muggle 
motorcycles, and also (Harry had to admire Siriuss nerve) several  

 KREACHERS  TALE  179  posters of bikini-clad Muggle girls;
 Harry could tell that they were 
Muggles because they remained qu
ite stationary within their pic-
tures, faded smiles and glazed eyes
 frozen on the paper. This was in 
contrast to the only Wizarding ph
otograph on the walls, which was 
a picture of four Hogwarts student
s standing arm in arm, laughing 
at the camera. With a leap of pleasure, Harry re
cognized his father; his untidy 
black hair stuck up at 
the back like Harrys, an
d he too wore glasses. 
Beside him was Sirius, carelessly handsome, his slightly arrogant face 
so much younger and happier than 
Harry had ever seen it alive. To 
Siriuss right stood Pettigrew, more
 than a head shorter, plump and 
watery-eyed, flushed with pleasure 
at his inclusion in this coolest 
of gangs, with the much-admired rebels that James and Sirius had 
been. On Jamess left was Lupin, 
even then a little shabby-looking, 
but he had the same air of delighte
d surprise at finding himself liked and included . . . or was it simp
ly because Harry knew how it had 
been, that he saw these things in the picture? He tried to take it from 
the wall; it was his now, after all, 
Sirius had left him everything, but 
it would not budge. Sirius had ta
ken no chances in preventing his 
parents from redecorating his room. 
Harry looked around at the fl
oor. The sky outside was grow-ing brighter: A shaft of light reve
aled bits of pa
per, books, and 
small objects scattered over the ca
rpet. Evidently Siriuss bedroom 
had been searched too, although it
s contents seemed to have been 
judged mostly, if not entirely, worthless. A few of the books had 
been shaken roughly enough to 
part company with their covers, 
and sundry pages 
littered the floor. Harry bent down, picked up a few 
of the pieces of paper, and  
 CHAPTER  TEN  180  examined them. He recognized one 
as part of an old edition of 
A History of Magic,
 by Bathilda Bagshot, 
and another as belonging 
to a motorcycle maintenance ma
nual. The third was handwritten 
and crumpled. He smoothed it out. 
 Dear Padfoot, Thank you, thank you, for Harrys birthday present! It 
was his favorite by far. One 
year old and already zooming 
along on a toy broomstick, he lo
oked so pleased with himself, 
Im enclosing a picture so you 
can see. You know it only 
rises about two feet off the gr
ound, but he nearly killed the 
cat and he smashed a horrible vase Petunia sent me for 
Christmas (no complaints there)
. Of course, James thought it 
was so funny, says hes going to
 be a great Quidditch player, 
but weve had to pack away al
l the ornaments and make sure we dont take our eyes off him when he gets going.
 We had a very quiet birthd
ay tea, just us and old Bathilda, who has always been sweet to us and who dotes on 

Harry. We were so sorry you couldnt come, but the Orders 

got to come first, and Harrys not old enough to know 
its his birthday an
yway! James is getting a bit frustrated 
shut up here, he tries not to show it but I can tell 
 also, Dumbledores still got his Invisi
bility Cloak, so no chance 
of little excursions. 
If you could visit, it would cheer him 
up so much. Wormy was here last weekend, I thought he 
seemed down, but that was probably the news about the 

McKinnons; I cried all evening when I heard. Bathilda drops in most days, 
shes a fascinating old thing 
with the most amazing stories about Dumbledore, Im not
 KREACHERS  TALE  181  sure hed be pleased if he kn
ew! I dont know how much to 
believe, actually, because it seems incredible that Dumbledore  Harrys extremities seemed to ha
ve gone numb. He stood quite 
still, holding the miraculous pa
per in his nerveless fingers while 
inside him a kind of quiet eruption sent joy and grief thundering 
in equal measure through his vein
s. Lurching to the bed, he sat 
down. He read the letter again, but co
uld not take in any more meaning 
than he had done the first time, and was reduced to staring at the 
handwriting itself. She had made her gs the same way he did: He 

searched through the letter for ever
y one of them, and each felt like 
a friendly little wave glimpsed fr
om behind a veil. The letter was an 
incredible treasure, proof that Lily Potter had lived, really lived, that 
her warm hand had once moved across this parchment, tracing ink 
into these letters, these words, words about him, Harry, her son. 
Impatiently brushing away the wet
ness in his eyes, he reread the 
letter, this time concentrating on 
the meaning. It was like listening 
to a half-remembered voice. 
They had had a cat . . . perhaps it 
had perished, like his parents, at 
Godrics Hollow . . . or else fled 
when there was nobody left to feed 
it. . . . Sirius had bought him his 
first broomstick. . . . His parents 
had known Bathilda Bagshot; ha
d Dumbledore introduced them? 
Dumbledores still got his Invisibility Cloak
 . . . There was something 
funny there. . . . Harry paused, pondering his mothers words. Why had Dum-
bledore taken Jamess Invisibility
 Cloak? Harry distinctly remem-
bered his headmaster telling him ye
ars before, I dont need a cloak 
to become invisible. Perhaps so
me less gifted Order member had 
CHAPTER  TEN  182  needed its assistance, and Dumbledore had acted as carrier? Harry 
passed on. . . . Wormy was here . . . Pettigrew, the traitor,
 had seemed down, 
had he? Was he aware th
at he was seeing Jame
s and Lily alive for 
the last time? And finally Bathilda again, who 
told incredible stories about 
Dumbledore. It seems incredible that Dumbledore
  
That Dumbledore what? But there were any number of things 
that would seem incredible abou
t Dumbledore; that he had once 
received bottom marks in a Transf
iguration test, for instance, or 
had taken up goat-charmin
g like Aberforth. . . . 
Harry got to his feet and scanned 
the floor: Perhaps the rest of 
the letter was here somewhere. He 
seized papers, treating them, in 
his eagerness, with as little consid
eration as the or
iginal searcher; 
he pulled open drawers, shook out books, stood on a chair to run 

his hand over the top of the wa
rdrobe, and crawled under the bed and armchair. 
At last, lying facedown on the floor
, he spotted what looked like 
a torn piece of paper under the ches
t of drawers. When he pulled it 
out, it proved to be most of th
e photograph Lily 
had described in her letter. A black-haired baby wa
s zooming in and out of the pic-
ture on a tiny broom, roaring with 
laughter, and a pair of legs that 
must have belonged to James was 
chasing after him. Harry tucked 
the photograph into his pocket with
 Lilys letter and continued to 
look for the second sheet. 
After another quarter of an hour
, however, he was forced to 
conclude that the rest of his mo
thers letter was 
gone. Had it sim-
ply been lost in the sixteen years that had elapsed since it had 

been written, or had it been taken by whoever had searched the 
KREACHERS  TALE  183  room? Harry read the first sheet ag
ain, this time looking for clues 
as to what might have made th
e second sheet valuable. His toy 
broomstick could hardly be considered interesting to the Death 
Eaters. . . . The only potentially useful thing he could see here 
was possible information on Dumbledore. 
It seems incredible that 
Dumbledore  what? 
Harry? Harry! Harry! Im here! he called
. Whats happened? 
There was a clatter of footstep
s outside the door, and Hermione burst inside. 
We woke up and didnt know where you were! she said breath-
lessly. She turned and shouted over her shoulder, Ron! Ive found 
him! Rons annoyed voice echoed distan
tly from several floors below. 
Good! Tell him from me hes a git! 

Harry, dont just disappear, plea
se, we were terrified! Why did 
you come up here anyway? She 
gazed around the ransacked room. 
What have you been doing? 
Look what Ive just found. He held out his mothers letter. 
Hermione took it and read it 
while Harry watched her. When sh
e reached the end of the page 
she looked up at him. 
Oh, Harry . . . 
And theres this too. 
He handed her the torn photogra
ph, and Hermione smiled at the 
baby zooming in and out of sight on the toy broom. 
Ive been looking for the rest of 
the letter, Harry 
said, but its 
not here. 
Hermione glanced around. CHAPTER  TEN  184  Did you make all this mess, or
 was some of it done when you 
got here? 
Someone had searched b
efore me, said Harry. 
I thought so. Every room I looked into on the way up had been 
disturbed. What were they after, do you think? 
Information on the Order, if it was Snape. 
But youd think hed already ha
ve all he needed, I mean, he was 
in the Order, wasnt he? 
Well then, said Harry, keen to 
discuss his theory, what about 
information on Dumbledore? The se
cond page of this letter, for 
instance. You know this Bathilda my mum mentions, you know 
who she is? Who? 
Bathilda Bagshot, the author of  
A History of Magic,
 said Hermione, looking interested. So your 
parents knew her? Sh
e was an incredible magical historian. 
And shes still alive, said Harry,
 and she lives in Godrics Hol-
low, Rons Auntie Muriel was ta
lking about her at
 the wedding. 
She knew Dumbledores family too.
 Be pretty interesting to talk 
to, wouldnt she? There was a little too much un
derstanding in the smile Hermi-
one gave him for Harrys liking. 
He took back the letter and the 
photograph and tucked them inside the pouch around his neck, so 

as not to have to look at her and give himself away. 
I understand why youd love to 
talk to her about your mum and 
dad, and Dumbledore too, said He
rmione. But that wouldnt re-
ally help us in our search for th
e Horcruxes, would it? Harry did 
not answer, and she rushed on, Harry, I know you really want to 

go to Godrics Hollow, but Im scar
ed, Im scared at how easily those 
KREACHERS  TALE  185  Death Eaters found us yesterday. 
It just makes me feel more than 
ever that we ought to avoid the pl
ace where your parents are buried, 
Im sure theyd be expe
cting you to visit it. Its not just that, Harry said, still avoiding looking at her. Mur-
iel said stuff about Dumbledore at the wedding. I want to know the 
truth. . . . He told Hermione everything th
at Muriel had told him. When 
he had finished, Hermione said, O
f course, I can see why thats 
upset you, Harry  
Im not upset, he lied, Id just 
like to know whether or not its 
true or  
Harry, do you really think youll get the truth from a malicious 
old woman like Muriel, or from 
Rita Skeeter? How can you believe 
them? You knew Dumbledore! 
I thought I did, he muttered. 
But you know how much truth 
there was in everything Rita 
wrote about you! Doge is right, ho
w can you let these people tarnish 
your memories of Dumbledore? 
He looked away, trying not to betray the resentment he felt. There 
it was again: Choose what to beli
eve. He wanted the truth. Why 
was everybody so determined that he should not get it? 
Shall we go down to the kitchen? Hermione suggested after a 
little pause. Find something for breakfast? He agreed, but grudgingly, and fo
llowed her out onto the land-
ing and past the second door that led off it. There were deep scratch 
marks in the paintwork below a small sign that he had not noticed 
in the dark. He paused at the top of the stairs to read it. It was a 
pompous little sign, neatly lettered 
by hand, the sort of thing that 
Percy Weasley might have stuck on his bedroom door: 
CHAPTER  TEN  186  Do Not Enter Without the Express Permission of Regulus Arcturus Black Excitement trickled through Harry, but he was not immediately 
sure why. He read the sign again. Hermione was already a flight of 
stairs below him. 
Hermione, he said, and he was surprised that his voice was so 
calm. Come back up here. 
Whats the matter? 
R.A.B. I think Ive found him. 
There was a gasp, and then Herm
ione ran back up the stairs. 
In your mums letter? 
But I didnt see  
Harry shook his head, pointing at 
Reguluss sign. She read it, then 
clutched Harrys arm so 
tightly that he winced. Siriuss brother? she whispered. 
He was a Death Eater, said Har
ry, Sirius told me about him, 
he joined up when he was really young and then got cold feet and 
tried to leave  so they killed him. 
That fits! gasped 
Hermione. If he was a Death Eater he had 
access to Voldemort, and if he be
came disenchanted, then he would 
have wanted to br
ing Voldemort down! She released Harry, leaned over the banister, and screamed, Ron! 
RON! Get up here, quick! 
Ron appeared, panting, a minute 
later, his wand ready in his 
hand. Whats up? If its massive spiders again I want breakfast 
before I  
 KREACHERS  TALE  187  He frowned at the sign on Reguluss door, to which Hermione 
was silently pointing. 
What? That was Siriuss brother, 
wasnt it? Regulus Arcturus . . . Regulus . . . 
R.A.B.
! The locket  you 
dont reckon  ? Lets find out, said
 Harry. He pushed the door: It was locked. 
Hermione pointed her wand at the handle and said, 
Alohomora. There was a click, and the door swung open. They moved over the threshold together, gazing around. Reguluss 
bedroom was slightly smaller than Siriuss, though it had the same 
sense of former grandeur. Whereas 
Sirius had sought to advertise 
his difference from the rest of the family, Regulus had striven to 
emphasize the opposite. The Slytheri
n colors of emerald and silver 
were everywhere, draping the bed, the walls, and the windows. The 
Black family crest was painstakin
gly painted over the bed, along 
with its motto, 
Toujours Pur
. Beneath this was a collection of 
yellow newspaper cuttings, all stuck together to make a ragged col-
lage. Hermione crossed the room to examine them. 
Theyre all about Voldemort, sh
e said. Regulus seems to have 
been a fan for a few years before he
 joined the Deat
h Eaters. . . . A little puff of dust rose from
 the bedcovers as she sat down to 
read the clippings. Harry, mean
while, had noticed another photo-
graph; a Hogwarts Quidditch team was smiling and waving out 
of the frame. He moved closer an
d saw the snakes emblazoned on 
their chests: Slytherins. Regulus was instantly recognizable as the 
boy sitting in the middle of the front row: He had the same dark 
hair and slightly haughty look of hi
s brother, though he was smaller, 
slighter, and rather less hand
some than Sirius had been. 
He played Seeker, said Harry. 
 CHAPTER  TEN  188  What? said Hermione vaguely; 
she was still immersed in Vol-
demorts press clippings. 
Hes sitting in the middle of th
e front row, thats where the 
Seeker . . . Never mind, said 
Harry, realizing that nobody was 
listening: Ron was on his hands and knees, searching under the 
wardrobe. Harry looked around the 
room for likely hiding places 
and approached the desk. Yet again,
 somebody had searched before 
them. The drawers contents had 
been turned over recently, the 
dust disturbed, but there was nothin
g of value there: old quills, out-
of-date textbooks that bore eviden
ce of being roughly handled, a 
recently smashed ink bottle, its sticky residue covering the contents 
of the drawer. Theres an easier way, said 
Hermione, as Harry wiped his inky 
fingers on his jeans. She raised her wand and said, 
Accio Locket! Nothing happened. Ron, who had been searching the folds of 
the faded curtains, looked disappointed. 
Is that it, then? Its not here? 
Oh, it could still be here, but under counter-enchantments, 
said Hermione. Charms to preven
t it being summoned magically, 
you know. 
Like Voldemort put on the stone ba
sin in the cave, said Harry, re-
membering how he had been unable
 to Summon the fake locket. 
How are we supposed to find it then? asked Ron. 
We search manually, said Hermione. 
Thats a good idea, said Ron, 
rolling his eyes, and he resumed 
his examination of the curtains. They combed every inch of the room for more than an hour, but 
were forced, finally, to conclude
 that the locket was not there. 
 KREACHERS  TALE  189  The sun had risen now; its light dazzled them even through the 
grimy landing windows. It could be somewhere else in 
the house, though, said Hermi-
one in a rallying tone as they walked back downstairs: As Harry 
and Ron had become more discourage
d, she seemed to have become 
more determined. Whether hed managed to destroy it or not, hed 
want to keep it hidden from Vo
ldemort, wouldnt he? Remember 
all those awful things we had to ge
t rid of when we were here last 
time? That clock that shot bolts 
at everyone and 
those old robes that tried to strangle Ron; Regulus might have put them there to 

protect the lockets hiding place, ev
en though we di
dnt realize it 
at . . . at . . . Harry and Ron looked at her. She 
was standing with one foot in 
midair, with the dumbst
ruck look of one who 
had just been Oblivi-
ated; her eyes had even drifted out of focus. 
. . . at the time, she finished in a whisper. 
Something wrong? asked Ron. 
There was a locket. 
What? said Harry and Ron together. 
In the cabinet in the drawing room. Nobody could open it. And 
we . . . we . . . Harry felt as though a brick had sl
id down through his chest into 
his stomach. He remembered: He 
had even handled the thing as 
they passed it around, each trying 
in turn to prise it open. It had 
been tossed into a sack of rubbish, 
along with the snuffbox of Wart-
cap powder and the music box that 
had made everyone sleepy. . . . 
Kreacher nicked loads of things 
back from us, said Harry. It 
was the only chance, the only slende
r hope left to them, and he was  
 CHAPTER  TEN  190  going to cling to it until forced 
to let go. He had a whole stash of 
stuff in his cupboard in
 the kitchen. Cmon. 
He ran down the stairs taking tw
o steps at a time, the other two 
thundering along in his wake. They
 made so much noise that they 
woke the portrait of Si
riuss mother as they passed through the hall. 
Filth! Mudbloods! Scum! she screamed after them as they dashed 
down into the basement kitche
n and slammed the door behind them. Harry ran the length of
 the room, skidded to
 a halt at the door 
of Kreachers cupboard, and wren
ched it open. There was the nest 
of dirty old blankets in which th
e house-elf had once slept, but 
they were no longer glittering wi
th the trinkets Kreacher had sal-
vaged. The only thing th
ere was an old copy of 
Natures Nobility: A 
Wizarding Genealogy. Refusing to believe his eyes, Harry snatched 
up the blankets and shook them. A dead mouse fell out and rolled 

dismally across the floor. Ron groa
ned as he threw himself into a 
kitchen chair; Hermione closed her eyes. 
Its not over yet, said Harry, and he raised his voice and called, 
Kreacher
! There was a loud crack and the house-elf that Harry had so re-
luctantly inherited from Sirius appe
ared out of nowhere in front of 
the cold and empty fireplace: tiny, 
half human-sized, his pale skin 
hanging off him in folds, white ha
ir sprouting copiously from his 
batlike ears. He was still wearing the filthy rag in which they had 
first met him, and the contemptuous look he bent upon Harry 
showed that his attitude to his ch
ange of ownership had altered no 
more than his outfit. Master, croaked Kreach
er in his bullfrogs voice, and he bowed  
 KREACHERS  TALE  191  low, muttering to his knees, back 
in my Mistresss old house with 
the blood-traitor Weasley and the Mudblood  I forbid you to call anyone b
lood traitor or Mudblood, 
growled Harry. He would have found Kreacher, with his snoutlike 
nose and bloodshot eyes, 
a distinctly unlovable 
object even if the 
elf had not betrayed Sirius to Voldemort. 
Ive got a question for you, said
 Harry, his heart 
beating rather fast as he looked down at the elf, 
and I order you to answer it truth-
fully. Understand? 
Yes, Master, said Kreacher, bowing low again: Harry saw his 
lips moving soundlessly, undoubtedly framing the insults he was 
now forbidden to utter. 
Two years ago, said Harry, his
 heart now hammering against 
his ribs, there was a big gold lock
et in the drawing room upstairs. 
We threw it out. Did you steal it back? 
There was a moments silence, du
ring which Kreacher straight-
ened up to look Harry full in 
the face. Then he
 said, Yes. Where is it now? asked Harry ju
bilantly as Ron and Hermione 
looked gleeful. 
Kreacher closed his eyes as though he could not bear to see their 
reactions to his next word. 
Gone. 
Gone? echoed Harry, elation fl
ooding out of 
him. What do 
you mean, its gone? 
The elf shivered. He swayed. 
Kreacher, said Harry fi
ercely, I order you  Mundungus Fletcher, croaked the 
elf, his eyes still tight shut. 
Mundungus Fletcher stole it all:
 Miss Bellas and Miss Cissys  
 CHAPTER  TEN  192  pictures, my Mistresss gloves, the 
Order of Merlin, First Class, the 
goblets with the family crest, and  and  
Kreacher was gulping for air: Hi
s hollow chest was rising and 
falling rapidly, then his eyes flew open and he uttered a bloodcur-
dling scream.  and the locket, Master Reguluss locket, Kreacher did wrong, 
Kreacher failed in his orders
! Harry reacted instinctively: As 
Kreacher lunged
 for the poker 
standing in the grate, he launch
ed himself upon the elf, flatten-
ing him. Hermiones scream mingled with Kreachers, but Harry 

bellowed louder than both of them
: Kreacher, I order you to stay 
still! He felt the elf freeze and released
 him. Kreacher lay flat on the 
cold stone floor, tears gushing from his sagging eyes. 
Harry, let him up! Hermione whispered. 

So he can beat himself up with 
the poker? snorted Harry, kneel-
ing beside the elf. I dont thin
k so. Right, Kreacher, I want the 
truth: How do you know Mundungus Fletcher stole the locket? 
Kreacher saw him! gasped the elf 
as tears poured over his snout 
and into his mouth full of gray
ing teeth. Kreacher saw him com-
ing out of Kreachers cupboard wi
th his hands full of Kreachers 
treasures. Kreacher told the sn
eak thief to stop, but Mundungus 
Fletcher laughed an
d r-ran. . . . 
You called the locket Master 
Reguluss, said Harry. Why? 
Where did it come from
? What did Regulus have to do with it? 
Kreacher, sit up and tell me ever
ything you know about that locket, 
and everything Regulus 
had to do with it! The elf sat up, curled into a ball, placed his wet face between 
his knees, and began to rock ba
ckward and forward. When he 
KREACHERS  TALE  193  spoke, his voice was muffled but qu
ite distinct in the silent, echo-
ing kitchen. 
Master Sirius ran away, good ridda
nce, for he was a bad boy and 
broke my Mistresss heart with hi
s lawless ways. Bu
t Master Regu-
lus had proper pride; he knew wh
at was due to the name of Black 
and the dignity of his pure blood. For years he talked of the Dark 
Lord, who was going to bring the wi
zards out of hiding to rule the 
Muggles and the Muggle-borns . . . and when he was sixteen years 
old, Master Regulus joined the Dark
 Lord. So proud, so proud, so 
happy to serve . . . 
And one day, a year after he 
had joined, Master Regulus came 
down to the kitchen to see Kreach
er. Master Regulus always liked 
Kreacher. And Master Regulus 
said . . . he said . . . The old elf rocked faster than ever. 
. . . he said that the Da
rk Lord required an elf. 
Voldemort needed an 
elf? Harry repeated, looking around at 
Ron and Hermione, who looked just as puzzled as he did. 
Oh yes, moaned Kreacher. A
nd Master Regulus had volun-
teered Kreacher. It was an honor, 
said Master Regulus, an honor for 
him and for Kreacher, who must be
 sure to do whatever the Dark 
Lord ordered him to do . . . 
and then to c-come home. 
Kreacher rocked still faster, 
his breath coming in sobs. 
So Kreacher went to the Dark 
Lord. The Dark Lord did not tell 
Kreacher what they were to do, but took Kreacher with him to a 
cave beside the sea. And beyond th
e cave there was a cavern, and in 
the cavern was a great black lake . . . The hairs on the back of Harrys 
neck stood up. Kreachers croak-
ing voice seemed to co
me to him from across that dark water. He 
saw what had happened as clearly 
as though he had been present. 
CHAPTER  TEN  194  . . . There was a boat . . . 
Of course there had been a boat; Harry knew the boat, ghostly 
green and tiny, bewitched so as to carry one wizard and one victim 
toward the island in the center
. This, then, was how Voldemort 
had tested the defenses surroundi
ng the Horcrux: by borrowing a 
disposable creature, a house-elf . . . 
There was a b-basin full of potion on the island. The D-Dark 
Lord made Kreacher
 drink it. . . . 
The elf quaked from head to foot. 
Kreacher drank, and as he drank, he saw terrible things. . . . 
Kreachers insides burned. . . . Kr
eacher cried for Master Regulus 
to save him, he cried for his Mist
ress Black, but the 
Dark Lord only 
laughed. . . . He made Kreacher dr
ink all the potion. . . . He dropped 
a locket into the empty basin. . . . He filled it with more potion. And then the Dark Lord sailed
 away, leaving Kreacher on the 
island. . . . Harry could see it happening. He watched Voldemorts white, 
snakelike face vanishing into dark
ness, those red eyes fixed piti-
lessly on the thrashing elf whose death would occur within minutes, 
whenever he succumbed to the desper
ate thirst that the burning po-
tion caused its victim. . . . But 
here, Harrys imagination could go 
no further, for he could not 
see how Kreacher had escaped. 
Kreacher needed water, he crawle
d to the islands edge and he 
drank from the black lake . . . and 
hands, dead hands, came out of 
the water and dragged Kreacher under the surface. . . . 
How did you get away? Harry asked, and he was not surprised 
to hear himself whispering. 
Kreacher raised his ugly head an
d looked at Harry with his great, 
bloodshot eyes. KREACHERS  TALE  195  Master Regulus told Kreacher to come back, he said. 
I know  but how did you escape the Inferi? 
Kreacher did not seem to understand. 
Master Regulus told Kreacher to come back, he repeated. 
I know, but  
Well, its obvious, isnt it, 
Harry? said Ron. He Disappa-
rated! But . . . you couldnt Apparate 
in and out of that cave, said 
Harry, otherwise Dumbledore  
Elf magic isnt like wizards magi
c, is it? said Ron. I mean, 
they can Apparate and Disapparate in and out of Hogwarts when 
we cant. There was silence as Harry digest
ed this. How could Voldemort 
have made such a mistake? But even as he thought this, Hermione 
spoke, and her voice was icy. 
Of course, Voldemort would have 
considered the ways of house-
elves far beneath his notice, just 
like all the purebloods who treat 
them like animals. . . . It woul
d never have occurred to him that 
they might have magi
c that he didnt. 
The house-elfs highest law is his Masters bidding, intoned 
Kreacher. Kreacher was told to come home, so Kreacher came 
home. . . . 
Well, then, you did what you we
re told, didnt you? said Her-
mione kindly. You didnt disobey orders at all! 
Kreacher shook his head, ro
cking as fast as ever. 
So what happened when you go
t back? Harry asked. What 
did Regulus say when you told him what
 had happened? Master Regulus was very worried, very worried, croaked 
Kreacher. Master Regulus told Kreacher to stay hidden and not to 
CHAPTER  TEN  196  leave the house. And then . . . it was a little while later . . . Master 
Regulus came to find Kreacher in his cupboard one night, and Mas-

ter Regulus was strange, not as he usually was, disturbed in his mind, 
Kreacher could tell . . . and he asked Kreacher to take him to the 
cave, the cave where Kreacher had 
gone with the Dark Lord. . . . 
And so they had set off. Harry coul
d visualize them quite clearly, 
the frightened old elf and the thin
, dark Seeker who had so resem-
bled Sirius. . . . Kreacher knew 
how to open the concealed entrance 
to the underground cavern, knew ho
w to raise the tiny boat; this 
time it was his beloved Regulus who sailed with him to the island 

with its basin of poison. . . . 
And he made you drink the potion? said Harry, disgusted. 
But Kreacher shook his head an
d wept. Hermiones hands leapt 
to her mouth: She seemed to have understood something. M-Master Regulus took from his 
pocket a locket like the one 
the Dark Lord had, said Kreacher
, tears pouring down either side 
of his snoutlike nose. And he told
 Kreacher to take it and, when 
the basin was empty, to switch the lockets. . . . 
Kreachers sobs came in great rasps now; Harry had to concen-
trate hard to un
derstand him. 
And he ordered  Kreacher 
to leave  without him. And 
he told Kreacher  to go home  and never to tell my Mistress 
 what he had done  but to destroy  the first locket. And he 

drank  all the potion  and Kr
eacher swapped the lockets  
and watched . . . as Master Regu
lus . . . was dragged beneath the 
water . . . and . . . Oh, Kreacher! wailed Hermio
ne, who was crying. She dropped 
to her knees beside the elf and trie
d to hug him. At once he was on 
his feet, cringing aw
ay from her, quite obviously repulsed. 
KREACHERS  TALE  197  The Mudblood touched Kreacher, 
he will not allow it, what 
would his Mistress say? I told you not to call her M
udblood! snarled Harry, but the 
elf was already punishing himself: 
He fell to the ground and banged 
his forehead on the floor. 
Stop him  stop him! Hermione cried. Oh, dont you see 
now how sick it is, the way theyve got to obey? 
Kreacher  stop, stop! shouted Harry. 
The elf lay on the floor, panting and shivering, green mucus glis-
tening around his snout, a bruise already blooming on his pallid 

forehead where he had struck hi
mself, his eyes swollen and blood-
shot and swimming in tears. Ha
rry had never seen anything so 
pitiful. So you brought the locket home, 
he said relentlessly, for he was 
determined to know the full story. And you 
tried to destroy it? 
Nothing Kreacher di
d made any mark upon
 it, moaned the 
elf. Kreacher tried everything, ev
erything he knew, but nothing, 
nothing would work. . . . So many 
powerful spells upon the casing, 
Kreacher was sure the way to destro
y it was to get inside it, but it 
would not open. . . . Kreacher puni
shed himself, he tried again, he 
punished himself, he tried again. 
Kreacher failed to obey orders, 
Kreacher could not destroy the 
locket! And his Mistress was mad 
with grief, because Master Regulu
s had disappeared, and Kreacher 
could not tell her what had happened, no, because Master Regulus 
had f-f-forbidden him to tell any 
of the f-f-family what happened 
in the c-cave. . . . 
Kreacher began to sob so hard 
that there were no more coher-
ent words. Tears flowed down He
rmiones cheeks as she watched 
Kreacher, but she did not dare touch him again. Even Ron, who was 
CHAPTER  TEN  198  no fan of Kreachers, looked trou
bled. Harry sat back on his heels 
and shook his head, tr
ying to clear it. 
I dont understand you, Kreacher, he said finally. Voldemort 
tried to kill you, Regulus died 
to bring Voldemort down, but you 
were still happy to betray Sirius 
to Voldemort? You were happy to 
go to Narcissa and Bellatrix, an
d pass information to Voldemort 
through them. . . . Harry, Kreacher doesn
t think like that, said Hermione, wip-
ing her eyes on the back of her ha
nd. Hes a slave; house-elves are 
used to bad, even brutal treatment;
 what Voldemort did to Kreacher wasnt that far out of the common 
way. What do wizard wars mean 
to an elf like Kreacher? Hes loyal to people who are kind to him, 
and Mrs. Black must have been, and Regulus certainly was, so he 
served them willingly and parroted th
eir beliefs. I know what youre 
going to say, she went on as Harry
 began to protest, that Regulus 
changed his mind . . . but he doesnt seem to have explained that to 
Kreacher, does he? And I think I know why. Kreacher and Reguluss 
family were all safer if they kept
 to the old pure-blood line. Regulus 
was trying to protect them all. Sirius  

Sirius was horrible to Kreacher, 
Harry, and its no good looking 
like that, you know its true. Kreach
er had been alone for a long time 
when Sirius came to live here, an
d he was probably
 starving for a 
bit of affection. Im sure Miss Ciss
y and Miss Bella were perfectly 
lovely to Kreacher when he turned
 up, so he did them a favor and 
told them everything they wanted to
 know. Ive said
 all along that 
wizards would pay for how they tr
eat house-elves. Well, Voldemort 
did . . . and so did Sirius. Harry had no retort. As he watc
hed Kreacher sobbing on the 
KREACHERS  TALE  199  floor, he remembered what Dumble
dore had said to him, mere hours 
after Siriuss death: 
I do not think Sirius ever saw Kreacher as a being 
with feelings as 
acute as a humans.
 . . . Kreacher, said Harry after a whil
e, when you feel up to it, er 
. . . please sit up. It was several minutes before Krea
cher hiccuped himself into si-
lence. Then he pushed himself into
 a sitting position again, rubbing 
his knuckles into 
his eyes like a small child. 
Kreacher, I am going to ask you to do something, said Harry. 
He glanced at Hermione for assistance. He wanted to give the order 

kindly, but at the same time, he 
could not pretend that it was not 
an order. However, the change in
 his tone seemed to have gained 
her approval: She smil
ed encouragingly. 
Kreacher, I want you, please, to
 go and find Mundungus Fletcher. 
We need to find out where the locket  where Master Reguluss 

locket is. Its really important. We
 want to finish the work Master 
Regulus started, we want to  er
  ensure that he
 didnt die in 
vain. Kreacher dropped his fists 
and looked up at Harry. 
Find Mundungus Fletcher? he croaked. 
And bring him here, to Grimmauld Place, said Harry. Do you think you could do that for us? 
As Kreacher nodded and got to his feet, Harry had a sudden 
inspiration. He pulled out Hagrids purse and took out the fake 
Horcrux, the substitute locket in 
which Regulus had placed the note 
to Voldemort. 
Kreacher, Id, er, like you to have this, he said, pressing the 
locket into the elfs hand. This 
belonged to Regulus and Im sure 
hed want you to have 
it as a token of gratitude for what you  
CHAPTER  TEN  200  Overkill, mate, said Ron as the 
elf took one look at the locket, 
let out a howl of shock and mise
ry, and threw himse
lf back onto 
the ground. It took them nearly half an hour to calm down Kreacher, who 
was so overcome to be presented 
with a Black family heirloom for 
his very own that he was too weak 
at the knees to stand properly. 
When finally he was able to totter
 a few steps they all accompanied 
him to his cupboard, watched him tuck up the locket safely in his 
dirty blankets, and assured him th
at they would make its protec-
tion their first priority while he was away. He then made two low 

bows to Harry and Ron, and even gave a funny little spasm in Her-
miones direction that might have 
been an attempt at a respectful 
salute, before Disapparating with the usual loud 
crack. C H A P T E R  E L E V E N   201  THE BRIBE 
   f Kreacher could escape a lake fu
ll of Inferi, Harry was confident 
that the capture of Mundungus wo
uld take a few hours at most, 
and he prowled the house all morning in a state of high anticipation. 

However, Kreacher did not return that morning or even that after-
noon. By nightfall, Harry felt discouraged and anxious, and a supper 
composed largely of moldy bread,
 upon which Hermione had tried a 
variety of unsuccessf
ul Transfigurations, did nothing to help. 
Kreacher did not return the following day, nor the day after that. 
However, two cloaked men had appe
ared in the square outside num-
ber twelve, and they remained there into the night, gazing in the 
direction of the house that they could not see. 
Death Eaters, for sure, said Ron, as he, Harry, and Hermione 
watched from the drawing room 
windows. Reckon they know 
were in here? I dont think so, said Hermione
, though she looked frightened, 
or theyd have sent Snape in after us, wouldnt they? 
I CHAPTER  ELEVEN  202  Dyou reckon hes been in here
 and had his tongue tied by 
Moodys curse? asked Ron. Yes, said Hermione, otherwise he
d have been able to tell that 
lot how to get in, wouldnt he? But theyre probably watching to see 
whether we turn up. They know 
that Harry owns the house, after 
all. How do they  ? began Harry. 
Wizarding wills are examined
 by the Ministry, remember? 
Theyll know Sirius left you the place. 
The presence of the Death Eaters outside increased the ominous 
mood inside number twelve. They 
had not heard a word from any-
one beyond Grimmauld Place since 
Mr. Weasleys Patronus, and the 
strain was starting to tell. Restle
ss and irritable, Ron had developed 
an annoying habit of playing with the Deluminator in his pocket: 
This particularly infuriated Hermione, who was whiling away the 

wait for Kreacher by studying 
The Tales of Beedle the Bard
 and did 
not appreciate the way the lights kept flashing on and off. 
Will you stop it! she cried on 
the third evening of Kreachers 
absence, as all light 
was sucked from the dr
awing room yet again. 
Sorry, sorry! said Ron, clicking the Deluminator and restoring 
the lights. I dont know Im doing it! 
Well, cant you find
 something useful to occupy yourself? 
What, like reading kids stories? 

Dumbledore left me this book, Ron  
 and he left me the Delumi
nator, maybe Im supposed to 
use it! Unable to stand the bickering,
 Harry slipped out of the room 
unnoticed by either of them. He headed downstairs toward the 

kitchen, which he kept visiting be
cause he was sure that was where 
THE  BRIBE  203  Kreacher was most likely to reappear. Halfway down the flight of 
stairs into the hall, however, he heard a tap on the front door, then 

metallic clicks and the 
grinding of the chain. 
Every nerve in his body seemed 
to tauten: He pulled out his 
wand, moved into the shadows beside
 the decapitated elf heads, and 
waited. The door opened: He saw a glimpse of the lamplit square 
outside, and a cloaked 
figure edged into the 
hall and closed the 
door behind it. The intruder took a step forward, and Moodys voice 
asked, 
Severus Snape? Then the dust figure rose from the end of 
the hall and rushed him,
 raising its dead hand. 
It was not I who killed you, Albus, said a quiet voice. 
The jinx broke: The dust-figure 
exploded again, and it was im-
possible to make out the newcom
er through the dense gray cloud 
it left behind. 
Harry pointed his wand 
into the middle of it. 
Dont move! 
He had forgotten the portrait of 
Mrs. Black: At the sound of his 
yell, the curtains hiding her flew
 open and she began to scream, 
Mudbloods and filth dishonoring my house
  
Ron and Hermione came crashing 
down the stairs behind Harry, 
wands pointing, like his, at th
e unknown man now standing with 
his arms raised in the hall below. 
Hold your fire, its me, Remus! 

Oh, thank goodness, said Her
mione weakly, pointing her wand 
at Mrs. Black instead; with a bang
, the curtains swished shut again 
and silence fell. Ron too lowere
d his wand, but Harry did not. 
Show yourself! he called back. 
Lupin moved forward into the lamp
light, hands still held high 
in a gesture of surrender. 
CHAPTER  ELEVEN  204  I am Remus John Lupin, werewo
lf, sometimes known as Moony, 
one of the four creators of the Marauders Map, married to Nympha-

dora, usually known as Tonks, an
d I taught you how to produce a 
Patronus, Harry, which take
s the form of a stag. 
Oh, all right, said Harry, lowering his wand, but I had to 
check, didnt I? 
Speaking as your ex-Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, I 
quite agree that you had to chec
k. Ron, Hermione, you shouldnt 
be quite so quick to lower your defenses. 
They ran down the stairs toward
 him. Wrapped in a thick black 
traveling cloak, he looked exhausted, but pleased to see them. 
No sign of Severus, then? he asked. 
No, said Harry. Whats go
ing on? Is everyone okay? Yes, said Lupin, but were all being watched. There are a couple 
of Death Eaters in the square outside  
We know  
I had to Apparate very precisel
y onto the top step outside the 
front door to be sure that they 
would not see me. They cant know 
youre in here or Im sure theyd have more people out there; theyre 
staking out everywhere thats go
t any connection with you, Harry. 
Lets go downstairs, theres a lot to
 tell you, and I want to know 
what happened after you left the Burrow. 
They descended into the kitchen, where Hermione pointed her 
wand at the grate. A fire sprang up instantly: It gave the illusion of 
coziness to the stark stone walls 
and glistened off the long wooden 
table. Lupin pulled a few butterb
eers from beneath his traveling 
cloak and they sat down. Id have been here three days ag
o but I needed to
 shake off the  
 THE  BRIBE  205  Death Eater tailing me, said Lupi
n. So, you came straight here 
after the wedding? No, said Harry, only after we ran into a couple of Death Eaters 
in a caf on Tottenham Court Road. Lupin slopped most of his butterbeer down his front. 
What
? They explained what had happe
ned; when they had finished, 
Lupin looked aghast. 
But how did they find you so qu
ickly? Its impossible to track 
anyone who Apparates, unless you grab hold of them as they 

disappear! And it doesnt seem likely they were just strolling down Totten-
ham Court Road at the time
, does it? said Harry. 
We wondered, said Hermione tent
atively, whether Harry could 
still have the Trace on him? 
Impossible, said Lupin. Ron looked smug, and Harry felt hugely 
relieved. Apart from anything else
, theyd know for sure Harry was 
here if he still had the Trace on 
him, wouldnt they? But I cant see 
how they could have tracked you to Tottenham Court Road, thats 
worrying, really worrying. 
He looked disturbed, but as fa
r as Harry was concerned, that 
question could wait. 
Tell us what happened after we 
left, we havent heard a thing 
since Rons dad told us the family were safe. 
Well, Kingsley saved us, said Lu
pin. Thanks to his warning most 
of the wedding guests were able to
 Disapparate before they arrived. 
Were they Death Eaters or Ministry people? interjected 
Hermione. 

 CHAPTER  ELEVEN  206  A mixture; but to all intents and 
purposes theyre the same thing 
now, said Lupin. There were abou
t a dozen of them, but they didnt 
know you were there, Harry. Arthur
 heard a rumor that they tried 
to torture your whereabouts out of
 Scrimgeour before they killed 
him; if its true, he 
didnt give you away. 
Harry looked at Ron and Hermione;
 their expressions reflected 
the mingled shock and gratitude he
 felt. He had never liked Scrim-
geour much, but if what Lupin sa
id was true, the mans final act 
had been to try to protect Harry. 
The Death Eaters searched the 
Burrow from top to bottom, Lu-
pin went on. They found the ghoul, but didnt want to get too close 
 and then they interrogated thos
e of us who remained for hours. 
They were trying to get informat
ion on you, Harry, but of course 
nobody apart from the Order knew that you had been there. 
At the same time that they were smashing up the wedding, more 
Death Eaters were forcing thei
r way into every Order-connected 
house in the country. No deaths,
 he added quickly, forestalling 
the question, but they were ro
ugh. They burned down Dedalus 
Diggles house, but as you know he
 wasnt there, and they used the 
Cruciatus Curse on Tonkss family. Again, trying to find out where 

you went after you visited them. 
Theyre all right  shaken, obvi-
ously, but otherwise okay. 
The Death Eaters got through 
all those protective charms? 
Harry asked, remembering how effec
tive these had been on the 
night he had crashed in 
Tonkss parents garden. 
What youve got to realize, Harry
, is that the Death Eaters have 
got the full might of the Ministry on their side now, said Lupin. 
Theyve got the power to perform brutal spells without fear of  

 THE  BRIBE  207  identification or arrest. They ma
naged to penetrate every defensive 
spell wed cast against them, and once inside, they were completely 

open about why theyd come. And are they botherin
g to give an excuse for torturing Harrys 
whereabouts out of peop
le? asked Hermione, an edge to her voice. 
Well, said Lupin. He hesitated,
 then pulled out a folded copy 
of the Daily Prophet. Here, he said, pushing it across
 the table to Harry, youll know 
sooner or later anyway
. Thats their pretext for going after you. 
Harry smoothed out the paper. 
A huge photograph of his own 
face filled the front page. He
 read the headline over it: 
WANTED FOR QUESTIONING ABOUT THE DEATH OF ALBUS DUMBLEDORE Ron and Hermione gave roars of 
outrage, but Harry said noth-
ing. He pushed the newspaper away
; he did not want to read any 
more: He knew what it would sa
y. Nobody but those who had been 
on top of the tower when Dumble
dore died knew who had really 
killed him and, as Rita Skeeter
 had already told the Wizarding 
world, Harry had been seen runnin
g from the place moments after 
Dumbledore had fallen. Im sorry, Harr
y, Lupin said. 
So Death Eaters ha
ve taken over the 
Daily Prophet too? asked 
Hermione furiously. 
Lupin nodded. 
But surely people real
ize whats going on? 
The coup has been smooth and vi
rtually silent, said Lupin.  
 CHAPTER  ELEVEN  208  The official version of Scrimgeours
 murder is that he resigned; he 
has been replaced by Pius Thicknesse, who is under the Imperius 

Curse. 
Why didnt Voldemort declare 
himself Minister of Magic? 
asked Ron. 
Lupin laughed. 
He doesnt need to, Ron. Effectively he 
is the Minister, but why 
should he sit behind a desk at the Ministry? His puppet, Thicknesse, 
is taking care of everyday busine
ss, leaving Voldemort free to extend 
his power beyond the Ministry. 
Naturally many people have 
deduced what has happened: There 
has been such a dramatic change in Ministry policy in the last few 
days, and many are whispering that
 Voldemort must be behind it. 
However, that is the point: They 
whisper. They darent confide in 
each other, not knowing whom to trust; they are scared to speak 

out, in case their suspicions are tr
ue and their families are targeted. 
Yes, Voldemort is playing a very clever game. Declaring himself 
might have provoked open rebellion: Remaining masked has cre-
ated confusion, unce
rtainty, and fear. And this dramatic change in Ministry policy, said Harry, involves 
warning the Wizarding world agai
nst me instead of Voldemort? Thats certainly part of it, said 
Lupin, and it is a masterstroke. 
Now that Dumbledore is dead, you  the Boy Who Lived  were 

sure to be the symbol and rallying
 point for any resistance to Volde-
mort. But by suggesting that you had a hand in the old heros death, 
Voldemort has not only set a price 
upon your head, but sown doubt 
and fear amongst many who would have defended you. 
Meanwhile, the Ministry has started moving against Muggle-
borns. 
THE  BRIBE  209  Lupin pointed at the 
Daily Prophet.
 Look at page two. 
Hermione turned the pages with 
much the same expression of 
distaste she had worn when handling 
Secrets of the Darkest Art. Muggle-born Register,
 she read aloud. 
The Ministry of Magic 
is undertaking a survey of so-called 
Muggle-borns,
 the better to un-
derstand how they came to
 possess magical secrets
. Recent research undertaken by th
e Department of Mysteries reveals 
that magic can only be passed from person to person when Wizards 
reproduce. Where no proven Wizardin
g ancestry exists, therefore, the 
so-called Muggle-born is likely to have obtained magical power by theft 
or force.
 The Ministry is determ
ined to root out such usurpers of magi-
cal power, and to this end has issued an invitation to every so-called 
Muggle-born to present themselves fo
r interview by the newly appointed 
Muggle-born Registration Commission.
 
People wont let this 
happen, said Ron. It is happening, Ron, said Lupi
n. Muggle-borns are being 
rounded up as we speak. 
But how are they supposed to ha
ve stolen magic? said Ron. 
Its mental, if you could steal ma
gic there wouldnt be any Squibs, 
would there? I know, said Lupin. Neverth
eless, unless you can prove that 
you have at least one close Wizard
ing relative, you are now deemed 
to have obtained your magical po
wer illegally and must suffer the 
punishment. 
Ron glanced at Hermione, then said, What if purebloods and 
half-bloods swear a Muggle-borns part
 of their family? Ill tell ev-
eryone Hermiones
 my cousin  CHAPTER  ELEVEN  210  Hermione covered Rons hand with hers and squeezed it. 
Thank you, Ron, but 
I couldnt let you  
You wont have a choice, said 
Ron fiercely, gripping her hand 
back. Ill teach you my family tree so you can answer questions 
on it. Hermione gave a shaky laugh. 
Ron, as were on the run with
 Harry Potter, the most wanted 
person in the country, I dont thin
k it matters. If I was going back 
to school it would be different.
 Whats Voldemort planning for 
Hogwarts? she asked Lupin. 
Attendance is now compulsory 
for every young witch and wiz-
ard, he replied. That was announ
ced yesterday. Its a change, be-
cause it was never obligatory befo
re. Of course, nea
rly every witch and wizard in Britain has been ed
ucated at Hogwarts, but their 
parents had the right to teach them at home or send them abroad if 

they preferred. This way, Voldem
ort will have the whole Wizarding 
population under his eye from a yo
ung age. And its also another 
way of weeding out Muggle-borns, because students must be given 
Blood Status  meaning that they ha
ve proven to the Ministry that 
they are of Wizard descent  befo
re they are allowed to attend. 
Harry felt sickened and angry: 
At this moment
, excited eleven-year-olds would be poring over stacks of newly purchased spell-
books, unaware that they would 
never see Hogwarts, perhaps never 
see their families again either. 
Its . . . its . . . he muttered,
 struggling to find words that did 
justice to the horror of his thou
ghts, but Lupin said quietly, 
I know. 
Lupin hesitated.  THE  BRIBE  211  Ill understand if you cant conf
irm this, Harry, but the Order is 
under the impression that Dumbledore left you a mission. 
He did, Harry replied, and Ro
n and Hermione are in on it 
and theyre coming with me. 
Can you confide in me 
what the mission is? 
Harry looked into the prematurely lined face, framed in thick but 
graying hair, and wished that he could return a different answer. 
I cant, Remus, Im sorry. If 
Dumbledore didnt tell you I dont 
think I can. I thought youd say that, said 
Lupin, looking disappointed. But 
I might still be of some use to yo
u. You know what 
I am and what I 
can do. I could come with you to
 provide protection. There would 
be no need to tell me exac
tly what you were up to. 
Harry hesitated. It was a very tempting offer, though how they 
would be able to keep their mission
 secret from Lupin if he were 
with them all the time he could not imagine. 
Hermione, however, looked puzzled. 
But what about To
nks? she asked. 
What about her? said Lupin. 
Well, said Hermione, frowning, youre married! How does she 
feel about you goin
g away with us? Tonks will be perfectly safe, said Lupin. Shell be at her par-
ents house. 
There was something strange in Lupins tone; it was almost cold. 
There was also something odd in th
e idea of Tonks remaining hid-
den at her parents house; she was,
 after all, a member of the Order 
and, as far as Harry knew, was likely
 to want to be 
in the thick of 
the action. 
 CHAPTER  ELEVEN  212  Remus, said Hermione tentativel
y, is everything all right . . . 
you know . . . between you and  
Everything is fine, 
thank you, said Lupin pointedly. 
Hermione turned pink. There was another pause, an awkward 
and embarrassed one, and then Lupi
n said, with an air of forcing 
himself to admit something unpleasa
nt, Tonks is going to have a 
baby. Oh, how wonderful! 
squealed Hermione. 
Excellent! said Ron enthusiastically. 
Congratulations, said Harry. 
Lupin gave an artificial smile that
 was more like a grimace, then 
said, So . . . do you accept my 
offer? Will three 
become four? I 
cannot believe that Dumbledore wo
uld have disapproved, he ap-
pointed me your Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, after all. 
And I must tell you that I believe 
that we are facing magic many of 
us have never encountered or imagined. 
Ron and Hermione both
 looked at Harry. 
Just  just to be clear, he said. You want to leave Tonks at her 
parents house and co
me away with us? Shell be perfectly safe there, th
eyll look after her, said Lupin. 
He spoke with a finality bordering 
on indifference. Harry, Im sure 
James would have wanted 
me to stick with you. 
Well, said Harry slowly, Im no
t. Im pretty sure my father 
would have wanted to know why yo
u arent sticking with your own 
kid, actually. Lupins face drained of color. 
The temperature in the kitchen 
might have dropped ten degrees. Ron stared around the room as 
though he had been bidden to memo
rize it, while Hermiones eyes 
swiveled backward and forw
ard from Harry to Lupin. 
THE  BRIBE  213  You dont understand, said Lupin at last. Explain, then, said Harry. 

Lupin swallowed. I  I made a grave mistake in 
marrying Tonks. I 
did it against 
my better judgment an
d I have regretted it very much ever since. 
I see, said Harry, so youre just going to dump her and the kid 
and run off with us? 
Lupin sprang to his feet: His ch
air toppled over backward, and 
he glared at them so fiercely that
 Harry saw, for the first time ever, 
the shadow of the wolf upon his human face. 
Dont you understand what Ive
 done to my wife and my unborn 
child? I should never ha
ve married her, Ive 
made her an outcast! Lupin kicked aside the ch
air he had overturned. You have only ever seen me am
ongst the Order, or under Dum-
bledores protection at Hogwarts! 
You dont know how most of the 
Wizarding world sees creatures li
ke me! When they know of my 
affliction, they can barely talk to
 me! Dont you see what Ive done? 
Even her own family is disgusted by our marriage, what parents 
want their only daughter to marry a werewolf? And the child  the 
child  
Lupin actually seized handfuls of his own hair; he looked quite 
deranged. My kind dont usually breed! It 
will be like me, I am convinced 
of it  how can I forgive myself
, when I knowingly risked passing 
on my own condition to an innocent child? And if, by some miracle, 
it is not like me, then it will be 
better off, a hundred times so, with-
out a father of whom it 
must always be ashamed! 
Remus! whispered He
rmione, tears in he
r eyes. Dont say 
that  how could any child be ashamed of you? CHAPTER  ELEVEN  214  Oh, I dont know, Herm
ione, said Harry. I
d be pretty ashamed 
of him. Harry did not know where his rage
 was coming from, but it had 
propelled him to his feet too. Lu
pin looked as though Harry had 
hit him. 
If the new regime thinks Muggle-borns are bad, Harry said, 
what will they do to a half-werewolf whose fathers in the Order? 

My father died trying to protect 
my mother and me, and you reckon 
hed tell you to abandon your kid 
to go on an adventure with us? 
How  how dare you? said Lupin. This is not about a desire 
for  for danger or personal gl
ory  how dare you suggest such 
a  I think youre feeling a bit of a daredevil, Harry said. You fancy 
stepping into Siriuss shoes  Harry, no! Hermione begged him, but he continued to glare 
into Lupins livid face. 
Id never have believed this, 
Harry said. The man who taught 
me to fight dementors  a coward. 
Lupin drew his wand so fast th
at Harry had barely reached for 
his own; there was a loud bang an
d he felt himself flying backward 
as if punched; as he slammed into the kitchen wall and slid to the 
floor, he glimpsed the tail of 
Lupins cloak disappearing around 
the door. Remus, Remus, come back! He
rmione cried, but Lupin did not 
respond. A moment later they heard the front door slam. Harry! wailed Hermione. How could you? It was easy, said Harry. He st
ood up; he could feel a lump swell-
ing where his head had hit the wall. 
He was still so full of anger he 
was shaking. 
THE  BRIBE  215  Dont look at me like that! he snapped at Hermione. 
Dont you start on her! snarled Ron. 

No  no  we mustnt fight! said Hermione, launching her-
self between them. 
You shouldnt have said that stuff to Lupin, Ron told Harry. 
He had it coming to him, said
 Harry. Broken images were rac-
ing each other through his mind: 
Sirius falling through the veil; 
Dumbledore suspended, broken, in 
midair; a flash of green light 
and his mothers voice, begging for mercy . . . 
Parents, said Harry, shouldnt
 leave their kids unless  unless 
theyve got to. 
Harry  said Hermione, stretc
hing out a consoling hand, but 
he shrugged it off and walked away
, his eyes on the fire Hermione 
had conjured. He had once spoken 
to Lupin out of that fireplace, 
seeking reassurance about James, and Lupin had consoled him. 
Now Lupins tortured white face s
eemed to swim in the air before 
him. He felt a sickening surge of remorse. Neither Ron nor Hermi-
one spoke, but Harry felt sure that 
they were looking at each other 
behind his back, communicating silently. 
He turned around and caught them turning hurriedly away from 
each other. 
I know I shouldnt have called him a coward. 
No, you shouldnt, said Ron at once. 
But hes acting like one. 
All the same . . . said Hermione. 
I know, said Harry. But if it makes him go back to Tonks, itll 
be worth it, wont it? He could not keep the plea out 
of his voice. Hermione looked 
sympathetic, Ron uncertain. Harry looked down at his feet, thinking 
CHAPTER  ELEVEN  216  of his father. Would James have ba
cked Harry in what he had said 
to Lupin, or would he have been angry at how his son had treated 

his old friend? 
The silent kitchen seemed to hu
m with the shock of the recent 
scene and with Ron and Hermiones unspoken reproaches. The Daily Prophet Lupin had brought was still ly
ing on the table, Harrys own 
face staring up at the ceiling from
 the front page. He walked over 
to it and sat down, opened the paper at random, and pretended to 
read. He could not take in the words; his mind was still too full 
of the encounter with Lupin. He was sure that Ron and Hermione 

had resumed their silent communicat
ions on the other side of the 
Prophet.
 He turned a page loudly, an
d Dumbledores name leapt out 
at him. It was a moment or two before he took in the meaning of the 
photograph, which showed a family
 group. Beneath 
the photograph were the words: 
The Dumbledore family, left to right: Albus; Percival, 
holding newborn Ariana; Kendra; and Aberforth.
 His attention caught, Harry exam
ined the picture more care-
fully. Dumbledores father, Perciv
al, was a good-looking man with 
eyes that seemed to twinkle even 
in this faded old photograph. The 
baby, Ariana, was little longer th
an a loaf of bread and no more 
distinctive-looking. The mother, K
endra, had jet-black hair pulled 
into a high bun. Her face had a carved quality about it. Harry 
thought of photos of Native Amer
icans hed seen as he studied her 
dark eyes, high cheekbones, and stra
ight nose, formally composed 
above a high-necked silk gown. Albus and Aberforth wore matching 
lacy collared jackets and had iden
tical, shoulder-length hairstyles. 
Albus looked several years older, 
but otherwise the two boys looked 
very alike, for this was before 
Albuss nose had been broken and 
before he started wearing glasses. 
THE  BRIBE  217  The family looked quite happy 
and normal, smiling serenely up out of the newspaper. Baby Ariana
s arm waved vaguely out of her 
shawl. Harry looked above the 
picture and saw the headline: 
 EXCLUSIVE EXTRACT FROM THE UPCOMING BIOGRAPHY OF ALBUS DUMBLEDORE by Rita Skeeter  Thinking that it could hardly ma
ke him feel any worse than he 
already did, Harry began to read: 
 Proud and haughty, Kendra Dumbledore could not 
bear to remain in Mould-on-the-Wold after her hus-
band Percivals well-publicized arrest and imprison-
ment in Azkaban. She therefore decided to uproot 

the family and relocate to Godrics Hollow, the vil-
lage that was later to gain fame as the scene of Harry 
Potters strange escape from You-Know-Who. Like Mould-on-the-Wold, Godrics Hollow was 
home to a number of Wizarding families, but as 

Kendra knew none of them, she would be spared 
the curiosity about her husbands crime she had 
faced in her former village. By repeatedly rebuffing 

the friendly advances of her new Wizarding neigh-
bors, she soon ensured that her family was left well 
alone. Slammed the door in my face when I went 
around to welcome her with a batch of homemade 

Cauldron Cakes, says Bath
ilda Bagshot. The first 
CHAPTER  ELEVEN  218  year they were there I only ever saw the two boys. 
Wouldnt have known there was a daughter if I 

hadnt been picking Plange
ntines by moonlight the 
winter after they moved in
, and saw Kendra leading 
Ariana out into the back 
garden. Walked her round 
the lawn once, keeping a firm grip on her, then took 
her back inside. Didnt know what to make of it. 
It seems that Kendra th
ought the move to God-
rics Hollow was the perfect opportunity to hide 
Ariana once and for all, 
something she had probably 
been planning for years. Th
e timing was significant. 
Ariana was barely seven ye
ars old when she vanished 
from sight, and seven is 
the age by which most ex-
perts agree that magic will 
have revealed itself, if 
present. Nobody now alive remembers Ariana ever 

demonstrating even the slightest sign of magical 
ability. It seems clear, th
erefore, that Kendra made 
a decision to hide her daughters existence rather 
than suffer the shame of admitting that she had pro-
duced a Squib. Moving away from the friends and 

neighbors who knew Ariana 
would, of course, make 
imprisoning her all the easier. The tiny number of 
people who henceforth knew
 of Arianas existence 
could be counted upon to keep the secret, including 
her two brothers, who deflected awkward questions with the answer their moth
er had taught them: My 
sister is too frail for school. 
Next week: Albus Dumbledore at Hogwarts 
 the Prizes and the Pretense.
 THE  BRIBE  219  Harry had been wrong: What he ha
d read had indeed made him 
feel worse. He looked back at th
e photograph of the apparently 
happy family. Was it true? How coul
d he find out? He wanted to 
go to Godrics Hollow, even if Bathilda was in no fit state to talk 
to him; he wanted to visit the place where he and Dumbledore had 
both lost loved ones. He was in 
the process of lowering the newspa-
per, to ask Rons and Hermione
s opinions, when a deafening 
crack 
echoed around the kitchen. 
For the first time in three days Harry had forgotten all about 
Kreacher. His immediate thought 
was that Lupin had burst back 
into the room, and for 
a split second, he did 
not take in the mass 
of struggling limbs that had appear
ed out of thin air right beside 
his chair. He hurried to his feet as Kreacher disentangled himself 
and, bowing low to Harry, croake
d, Kreacher has returned with 
the thief Mundungus Fletcher, Master. 
Mundungus scrambled up and pulled out his wand; Hermione, 
however, was too quick for him. 
Expelliarmus! Mundunguss wand soared into th
e air, and Hermione caught it. 
Wild-eyed, Mundungus dived for th
e stairs: Ron rugby-tackled him 
and Mundungus hit the stone fl
oor with a muffled crunch. 
What? he bellowed, writhing in
 his attempts to free himself 
from Rons grip. Whave I done? 
Setting a bleedin ouse-elf on 
me, what are you playing at, whave I done, lemme go, lemme go, 
or  Youre not in much of a position 
to make threats, 
said Harry. He 
threw aside the newspaper, crossed th
e kitchen in a few strides, and 
dropped to his knees beside Mundungus, who stopped struggling 

and looked terrified. Ron got up, 
panting, and watched as Harry 
CHAPTER  ELEVEN  220  pointed his wand deliberately at Mundunguss nose. Mundungus 
stank of stale sweat and tobacco 
smoke: His hair was matted and 
his robes stained. 
Kreacher apologizes for the delay 
in bringing the thief, Master, 
croaked the elf. Fletcher knows how to avoid capture, has many 
hidey-holes and accomplices. Nevertheless, Kreacher cornered the 
thief in the end. 
Youve done really well, Kreacher, said Harry, and the elf bowed 
low. Right, weve got a few question
s for you, Harry told Mundun-
gus, who shouted at once, I panicked, okay? I never wanted
 to come along, no offense, 
mate, but I never volunteered to die for you, an that was bleedin 
You-Know-Who come flying at me
, anyone woulda got outta there, 
I said all along I didnt wanna do it  
For your information, none of the rest of us Disapparated, said 
Hermione. 
Well, youre a bunch of bleedin
 eroes then, arent you, but I 
never pretended I was up 
for killing meself  
Were not interested in why you ran out on Mad-Eye, said 
Harry, moving his wand a little
 closer to Mundunguss baggy, 
bloodshot eyes. We already knew yo
u were an unreliable bit of 
scum. 
Well then, why the ell am I bein
g unted down by ouse-elves? 
Or is this about them goblets agai
n? I aint got none of em left, or 
you could ave em  
Its not about the goblets either, 
although youre getting warmer, 
said Harry. Shut up and listen. 
It felt wonderful to have somet
hing to do, someone of whom he 
THE  BRIBE  221  could demand some small portion 
of truth. Harrys wand was now 
so close to the bridge of Mund
unguss nose that Mundungus had 
gone cross-eyed trying 
to keep it in view. 
When you cleaned out this hous
e of anything valuable, Harry 
began, but Mundungus in
terrupted him again. Sirius never cared about any of the junk  
There was the sound of pattering 
feet, a blaze of shining copper, 
an echoing clang, and a shriek of
 agony: Kreacher had taken a run 
at Mundungus and hit him over the head with a saucepan. Call im off, call im off, e 
should be locked up! screamed 
Mundungus, cowering as Kreacher
 raised the heavy-bottomed pan 
again. Kreacher, no! shouted Harry. 
Kreachers thin arms trembled wi
th the weight of the pan, still 
held aloft. 
Perhaps just one more, 
Master Harry, for luck? 
Ron laughed. 
We need him conscious, Kreach
er, but if he needs persuading 
you can do the honors, said Harry. 
Thank you very much, Master, sa
id Kreacher with a bow, and 
he retreated a short distance, his great pale eyes still fixed upon 
Mundungus with loathing. 
When you stripped this house of
 all the valuables you could 
find, Harry began again, you 
took a bunch of stuff from the 
kitchen cupboard. There was a locket there. Harrys mouth was 
suddenly dry: He could sense Ron and Hermiones tension and ex-
citement too. What did you do with it? Why? asked Mundungus. Is it valuable? 

Youve still got it
! cried Hermione. 
CHAPTER  ELEVEN  222  No, he hasnt, said Ron shrewdly. Hes wondering whether he 
should have asked mo
re money for it. 
More? said Mundungus. That 
wouldnt have been effing dif-
ficult . . . bleedin 
gave it away, din I? No choice. 
What do you mean? 
I was selling in Diagon Alley and she come up to me and asks if 
Ive got a license for trading in magical artifacts. Bleedin snoop. She 

was gonna fine me, but she took a fa
ncy to the locket an told me 
shed take it and let me
 off that time, and to fink meself lucky. 
Who was this woman? asked Harry. 

I dunno, some Ministry hag. 
Mundungus considered for 
a moment, brow wrinkled. 
Little woman. Bow on top of er head. 
He frowned and then added, Looked like a toad. 
Harry dropped his wand: It hit Mu
ndungus on the nose and shot red sparks into his ey
ebrows, which ignited. 
Aguamenti! screamed Hermione, and a jet of water streamed 
from her wand, engulfing a splu
ttering and choking Mundungus. 
Harry looked up and saw his own 
shock reflected in Rons and 
Hermiones faces. The scars on the 
back of his right hand seemed to 
be tingling again. 
C H A P T E R  T W E L V E   223  MAGIC IS MIGHT 
   s August wore on, the square of unkempt grass in the 
middle of Grimmauld Place shri
veled in the sun until it 
was brittle and brown. The inhabitants of number twelve were never 

seen by anybody in the surroundi
ng houses, and nor was number 
twelve itself. The Muggles who li
ved in Grimmauld Place had long 
since accepted the amusing mistake in the numbering that had 
caused number eleven to si
t beside number thirteen. 
And yet the square was now attracting a trickle of visitors who 
seemed to find the anomaly most
 intriguing. Barely a day passed 
without one or two people arrivi
ng in Grimmauld Place with no 
other purpose, or so it seemed, th
an to lean against the railings 
facing numbers eleven and thirteen
, watching the join between the 
two houses. The lurkers were never the same two days running, 

although they all seemed to shar
e a dislike for normal clothing. 
Most of the Londoners who passed them were used to eccentric 
dressers and took little notice, 
though occasionally one of them 
A CHAPTER  TWELVE 
 224  might glance back, wondering why anyone would wear such long 
cloaks in this heat. 
The watchers seemed to 
be gleaning little satisfaction from their 
vigil. Occasionally one of them star
ted forward excitedly, as if they 
had seen something interesting at la
st, only to fall back looking 
disappointed. On the first day of September ther
e were more people lurking in 
the square than ever before. Half
 a dozen men in long cloaks stood 
silent and watchful
, gazing as ever at houses eleven and thirteen, 
but the thing for which they were wa
iting still appeared elusive. As 
evening drew in, bringing with it an
 unexpected gust of chilly rain 
for the first time in weeks, there occurred one of those inexplicable 
moments when they appeared to ha
ve seen something interesting. 
The man with the twisted face po
inted and his closest companion, 
a podgy, pallid man, started forwar
d, but a moment later they had 
relaxed into their previous state of
 inactivity, looking frustrated and 
disappointed. Meanwhile, inside number twel
ve, Harry had just entered the 
hall. He had nearly lost his balanc
e as he Apparated onto the top 
step just outside the front door, and thought that the Death Eaters 

might have caught a glimpse of 
his momentarily exposed elbow. 
Shutting the front door carefully 
behind him, he pulled off the 
Invisibility Cloak, draped it ov
er his arm, and hurried along the 
gloomy hallway toward the door that
 led to the basement, a stolen 
copy of the 
Daily Prophet clutched in his hand. 
The usual low whisper of 
Severus Snape? greeted him, the chill 
wind swept him, and his tongue rolled up for a moment. 
I didnt kill you, he said, once
 it had unrolled, then held his 
breath as the dusty jinx-figure exploded. He waited until he was 
MAGIC  IS  MIGHT  225  halfway down the stairs to the kitc
hen, out of earshot of Mrs. Black 
and clear of the dust cloud, before
 calling, Ive got news, and you 
wont like it. 
The kitchen was almost unreco
gnizable. Every surface now shone: Copper pots and pans had been burnished to a rosy glow; 
the wooden tabletop gleamed; the go
blets and plates already laid for 
dinner glinted in the light from a 
merrily blazing fi
re, on which a 
cauldron was simmering. Nothing in the room, however, was more 
dramatically different than the 
house-elf who now came hurrying 
toward Harry, dressed in a snowy-w
hite towel, his ear hair as clean 
and fluffy as cotton wool, Regulu
ss locket bouncing on his thin 
chest. 
Shoes off, if you please, Mast
er Harry, and hands washed be-
fore dinner, croaked Kreacher, se
izing the Invisibility Cloak and 
slouching off to hang it on a hook
 on the wall, beside a number of 
old-fashioned robes that had been freshly laundered. 
Whats happened? Ron asked apprehensively. He and Hermi-
one had been poring over a sheaf of scribbled notes and hand-drawn 
maps that littered the end of the 
long kitchen table, but now they 
watched Harry as he strode towa
rd them and threw down the news-
paper on top of their 
scattered parchment. 
A large picture of a familiar, hook-nosed, black-haired man stared 
up at them all, beneat
h a headline that read: 
SEVERUS SNAPE CONFIRMED AS HOGWARTS HEADMASTER No! said Ron and Hermione loudly. 
Hermione was quickest; she snat
ched up the newspaper and be-
gan to read the accomp
anying story out loud. 
CHAPTER  TWELVE 
 226  Severus Snape, long-standing Potion
s master at Hogwarts School of 
Witchcraft and Wizardry, was today appointed headmaster in the most 
important of several staffing change
s at the ancient 
school. Following 
the resignation of the previous Muggle Studies teacher, Alecto Carrow 

will take over the post while her brother, Amycus, fills the position of 

Defense Against the Dark Arts professor.
 I welcome the opportunity to uphold our finest Wizarding tradi-
tions and values
  Like committing murder and cutting off peo-
ples ears, I suppose! Snape, headmaster! Snape in Dumbledores 
study  Merlins pants! she sh
rieked, making both Harry and 
Ron jump. She leapt up from the 
table and hurtled from the room, 
shouting as she went, Ill be back in a minute! 
Merlins pants? repeated Ro
n, looking amused. She must 
be upset. He pulled the newspaper toward him and perused the 
article about Snape. 
The other teachers wont stand 
for this. McGonagall and Flit-
wick and Sprout all know the truth, they know how Dumbledore 
died. They wont accept Snape as
 headmaster. And who are these 
Carrows? 
Death Eaters, said Harry. There
 are pictures of them inside. 
They were at the top of the to
wer when Snape killed Dumbledore, 
so its all friends together. And,
 Harry went on bitterly, drawing 
up a chair, I cant see that the 
other teachers have got any choice 
but to stay. If the Ministry and Voldemort are behind Snape itll be 
a choice between staying and teaching, or a nice few years in Az-
kaban  and thats if theyre lucky. I reckon theyll stay to try and 

protect the students. 
Kreacher came bustling to the ta
ble with a large tureen in his  
 MAGIC  IS  MIGHT  227  hands, and ladled out soup into pristine bowls, whistling between 
his teeth as he did so. 
Thanks, Kreacher, said Harry, flipping over the 
Prophet
 so as 
not to have to look at Snapes face. Well, at least we know exactly 
where Snape is now. 
He began to spoon soup into his mouth. The quality of Kreachers 
cooking had improved dramatically
 ever since he had been given 
Reguluss locket: Todays French onion was as good as Harry had 
ever tasted. 
There are still a load of Death 
Eaters watching the house, he 
told Ron as he ate, more than usual. Its like theyre hoping well 
march out carrying our school tr
unks and head off for the Hog-
warts Express. 
Ron glanced at his watch. 
Ive been thinking about that all da
y. It left nearly six hours ago. 
Weird, not being on it, isnt it? 
In his minds eye Harry seemed to see the scarlet steam engine as 
he and Ron had once followed it by
 air, shimmering between fields 
and hills, a rippling scarlet caterpillar. He was sure Ginny, Neville, 
and Luna were sitting together at this moment, perhaps wonder-

ing where he, Ron, and Hermione we
re, or debating how best to 
undermine Snape
s new regime. They nearly saw me coming back
 in just now, Harry said. I 
landed badly on the top st
ep, and the Cloak slipped. I do that every time. 
Oh, here she is, Ron 
added, craning around 
in his seat to watch Hermione reente
ring the kitchen. And what in 
the name of Merlins most ba
ggy Y Fronts was that about? 
I remembered this, Hermione panted. 
 CHAPTER  TWELVE 
 228  She was carrying a large, framed
 picture, which she now lowered 
to the floor before seizing her sm
all, beaded bag from the kitchen 
sideboard. Opening it, she proceede
d to force the painting inside, 
and despite the fact that
 it was patently too la
rge to fit inside the 
tiny bag, within a few seconds it 
had vanished, like so much else, 
into the bags capacious depths. 
Phineas Nigellus, Hermione ex
plained as she threw the bag 
onto the kitchen table with the usual sonorous, clanking crash. 
Sorry? said Ron, but Harry understood. The painted image 
of Phineas Nigellus Black was able 
to flit between his portrait in 
Grimmauld Place and the one that hu
ng in the headmasters office 
at Hogwarts: the circular tower-top room where Snape was no doubt 
sitting right now, in triumphant possession of Dumbledores collec-
tion of delicate, silver magical instruments, the stone Pensieve, the 
Sorting Hat and, unless it had b
een moved elsewhere, the sword of 
Gryffindor. Snape could send Phineas Nigellus 
to look inside this house for 
him, Hermione explained to Ron as she resumed her seat. But let 
him try it now, all Phineas Nigellus wi
ll be able to see is the inside 
of my handbag. 
Good thinking! said Ron, looking impressed. 
Thank you, smiled Hermione, 
pulling her soup toward her. 
So, Harry, what else happened today? 
Nothing, said Harry. Watched 
the Ministry entrance for seven 
hours. No sign of her. Saw your dad, though, Ron. He looks fine. 
Ron nodded his appreciation of t
his news. They had agreed that 
it was far too dangerous to try and communicate with Mr. Weasley 
while he walked in and out of th
e Ministry, because he was always 
surrounded by other Ministry workers.
 It was, however, reassuring 
MAGIC  IS  MIGHT  229  to catch these glimpses of him, even
 if he did look very strained 
and anxious. 
Dad always told us most Ministry people use the Floo Network 
to get to work, Ron said. Tha
ts why we havent seen Umbridge, 
shed never walk, shed think shes too important. 
And what about that funny old wi
tch and that little wizard in 
the navy robes? Hermione asked. 
Oh yeah, the bloke from Magical Maintenance, said Ron. 
How do you know he works fo
r Magical Maintenance? Hermi-one asked, her soupspoon suspended in midair. Dad said everyone from Magica
l Maintenance wears navy blue 
robes. 
But you never told us that! 
Hermione dropped her spoon and 
pulled toward her the sheaf of 
notes and maps that she and Ro
n had been examining when Harry 
had entered the kitchen. 
Theres nothing in here about 
navy blue robes, nothing! she 
said, flipping feverishly through the pages. 
Well, does it really matter? Ron, it all matters! If were going to get into the Ministry and 
not give ourselves away when theyre 
bound to be on th
e lookout for 
intruders, every little detail matters
! Weve been over and over this, I 
mean, whats the point of all thes
e reconnaissance trips if you arent 
even bothering to
 tell us  
Blimey, Hermione, I forg
et one little thing  
You do realize, dont you, that
 theres probably no more dan-
gerous place in the whole world fo
r us to be right now than the 
Ministry of  
I think we should do it 
tomorrow, said Harry. 
CHAPTER  TWELVE 
 230  Hermione stopped dead, her jaw hanging; Ron choked a little 
over his soup. 
Tomorrow? repeated Hermione. 
You arent se
rious, Harry? 
I am, said Harry. I dont thin
k were going to be much better 
prepared than we are now even if
 we skulk around the Ministry 
entrance for another month. The long
er we put it off, the farther 
away that locket could be. There
s already a good chance Umbridge 
has chucked it away; th
e thing doesnt open. 
Unless, said Ron, shes found a way of opening it and shes 
now possessed. 
Wouldnt make any difference to he
r, she was so evil in the first 
place, Harry shrugged. 
Hermione was biting her lip, deep in thought. 
We know everything importan
t, Harry went on, addressing 
Hermione. We know theyve stoppe
d Apparition in and out of the 
Ministry. We know only the most 
senior Ministry members are al-
lowed to connect their homes to 
the Floo Network now, because 
Ron heard those two Unspeakables complaining about it. And we 
know roughly where Umbridges offi
ce is, because of what you heard 
that bearded bloke saying to his mate  
Ill be up on level one, Dolores wants to see me,
 Hermione re-cited immediately. Exactly, said Harry. And we kn
ow you get in using those funny 
coins, or tokens, or whatever they
 are, because I saw that witch bor-
rowing one from her friend  
But we havent got any! 
If the plan works, we will have, Harry continued calmly. 
I dont know, Harry, I dont know. 
. . . There are an awful lot of 
things that could go wrong, so 
much relies on chance. . . . 
MAGIC  IS  MIGHT  231  Thatll be true even if we sp
end another three months prepar-
ing, said Harry. Its time to act. 
He could tell from Rons and He
rmiones faces that they were 
scared; he was not particularly co
nfident himself, and yet he was 
sure the time had come to put their plan into operation. 
They had spent the previous four 
weeks taking it in turns to don 
the Invisibility Cloak and spy on the official entrance to the Minis-

try, which Ron, thanks to Mr. We
asley, had known since childhood. 
They had tailed Ministry workers 
on their way in, eavesdropped on 
their conversations, and learned 
by careful observation which of 
them could be relied upon to appe
ar, alone, at the 
same time every 
day. Occasionally there had been a chance to sneak a 
Daily Prophet out of somebodys briefcase. Slowly they had built up the sketchy 
maps and notes now stacke
d in front of Hermione. All right, said Ron slowly, lets
 say we go for it tomorrow. . . . 
I think it should ju
st be me and Harry. 
Oh, dont start that again! sighed Hermione. I thought wed 
settled this. Its one thing hanging around the entrances under the Cloak, 
but this is different, Hermione. Ro
n jabbed a finger at a copy of 
the Daily Prophet dated ten days previously. Youre on the list of 
Muggle-borns who didnt present themselves for interrogation! 
And youre supposed to be dying of spattergroit at the Burrow! 
If anyone shouldnt go, its Harry,
 hes got a ten-thousand-Galleon 
price on his head  
Fine, Ill stay here, said Harry.
 Let me know if you ever defeat 
Voldemort, wont you? As Ron and Hermione laughed, pain shot through the scar on 
Harrys forehead. His hand jumped to it: He saw Hermiones eyes 
CHAPTER  TWELVE 
 232  narrow, and he tried to pass off th
e movement by brushing his hair 
out of his eyes. Well, if all three of us go we
ll have to Disapparate separately, 
Ron was saying. We cant all 
fit under the Cl
oak anymore. Harrys scar was becoming more an
d more painful. He stood up. 
At once, Kreacher hurried forward. 
Master has not finished his soup, would Master prefer the savory 
stew, or else the treacle tart to
 which Master is so partial? 
Thanks, Kreacher, but Ill be back in a minute  er  bath-
room. Aware that Hermione was watching him suspiciously, Harry hur-
ried up the stairs to the hall and 
then to the first landing, where he 
dashed into the bathro
om and bolted the door again. Grunting with 
pain, he slumped over the black basi
n with its taps in the form of 
open-mouthed serpents and closed his eyes. . . . 
He was gliding along a twilit str
eet. The buildings on either side 
of him had high, timbered gables
; they looked like gingerbread 
houses. 
He approached one of them, th
en saw the whiteness of his own 
long-fingered hand agai
nst the door. He knocke
d. He felt a mount-
ing excitement. . . . The door opened: A laughing woman st
ood there. Her face fell as she looked into Harrys face: humo
r gone, terror replacing it. . . . 
Gregorovitch? said a high, cold voice. 
She shook her head: She was tryi
ng to close the door. A white 
hand held it steady, prevente
d her shutting him out. . . . I want Gregorovitch. 
Er wohnt hier nicht mehr
! she cried, shaking her head. He no 
live here! He no live here! I know him not! 
MAGIC  IS  MIGHT  233  Abandoning the attempt to clos
e the door, she began to back 
away down the dark hall, and Harry 
followed, gliding toward her, 
and his long-fingered ha
nd had drawn his wand. 
Where is he? Das wei ich nicht! He move! I know not, I know not! 
He raised the wand. She scream
ed. Two young children came 
running into the hall. She tried to 
shield them with her arms. There 
was a flash of green light  
Harry! HARRY! He opened his eyes; he had sunk to the floor. Hermione was 
pounding on the door again. Harry, open up! He had shouted out, he knew it. 
He got up and unbolted the door; 
Hermione toppled inside at once, 
regained her balance, and looked 
around suspiciously. Ron was right 
behind her, looking unnerved as 
he pointed his wand into the co
rners of the chilly bathroom. 
What were you doing? asked Hermione sternly. 
What dyou think I was doing? asked Harry with feeble 
bravado. You were yelling your 
head off! said Ron. 
Oh yeah . . . I mustve dozed off or  Harry, please dont insult our intelligence, said Hermione, tak-
ing deep breaths. We know your 
scar hurt downstairs, and youre 
white as a sheet. 
Harry sat down on the edge of the bath. 
Fine. Ive just seen Voldem
ort murdering a woman. By now 
hes probably killed her whole fami
ly. And he didnt need to. It was 
Cedric all over again, they were just 
there. . . . Harry, you arent supposed to let this happen anymore! 
CHAPTER  TWELVE 
 234  Hermione cried, her voice echoing through the bathroom. Dum-
bledore wanted you to use Occlum
ency! He thought the connection 
was dangerous  Voldemort can use it, Harry! What good is it to 
watch him kill and tortur
e, how can it help? 
Because it means I know what hes doing, said Harry. 
So youre not even going to 
try to shut him out? 
Hermione, I cant. You know Im lousy at Occlumency, I never 
got the hang of it. 
You never really tried! she sa
id hotly. I dont get it, Harry  
do you 
like having this special conne
ction or relationship or 
what  whatever  She faltered under the look he gave her as he stood up. Like it? he said quietly. Would 
you like it? 
I  no  Im sorry, Ha
rry, I didnt mean  
I hate it, I hate the fact that he
 can get inside me, that I have to 
watch him when hes most danger
ous. But Im going to use it. 
Dumbledore  
Forget Dumbledore. This is my ch
oice, nobody elses. I want to 
know why hes after Gregorovitch. 
Who? 

Hes a foreign wandmaker, said Harry. He made Krums wand 
and Krum reckons hes brilliant. 
But according to you, said Ro
n, Voldemorts got Ollivander 
locked up somewhere. If hes al
ready got a wandmaker, what does 
he need another one for? 
Maybe he agrees with Krum, maybe he thinks Gregorovitch 
is better . . . or else he thinks Gregorovitch will be able to explain 
what my wand did when he was 
chasing me, because Ollivander 
didnt know. MAGIC  IS  MIGHT  235  Harry glanced into the cracked, dusty mirror and saw Ron and 
Hermione exchanging skepti
cal looks behind his back. 
Harry, you keep talking about wh
at your wand did, said Her-
mione, but 
you made it happen! Why ar
e you so determined not 
to take responsibility
 for your own power? 
Because I know it wasnt me! And so does Voldemort, Hermione! 
We both know what 
really happened! 
They glared at each other: Ha
rry knew that he had not con-
vinced Hermione and that she was marshaling counterarguments, 
against both his theory on his wand
 and the fact that he was per-
mitting himself to see into Vold
emorts mind. To his relief, Ron 
intervened. 
Drop it, he advised her. Its 
up to him. And if were going to 
the Ministry tomorrow, dont you reckon we should go over the 
plan? Reluctantly, as the other two co
uld tell, Hermione let the mat-
ter rest, though Harry was quite sure
 she would attack again at the 
first opportunity. In the meantime, they returned to the basement 
kitchen, where Kreacher served 
them all stew and treacle tart. 
They did not get to bed until late
 that night, after spending hours 
going over and over their plan unti
l they could recite it, word per-
fect, to each other. Harry, who wa
s now sleeping in Siriuss room, lay 
in bed with his wandlight trained 
on the old photograph of his fa-
ther, Sirius, Lupin, and Pettigrew, 
and muttered the plan to himself 
for another ten minutes. As he ex
tinguished his wand, however, he 
was thinking not of Polyjuice Potion, Puking Pastilles, or the navy 
blue robes of Magical Maintenance; he thought of Gregorovitch the 
wandmaker, and how long he coul
d hope to remain hidden while 
Voldemort sought hi
m so determinedly. 
CHAPTER  TWELVE 
 236  Dawn seemed to follow midn
ight with indecent haste. 
You look terrible, was Rons gr
eeting as he entered the room 
to wake Harry. 
Not for long, said Harry, yawning. 
They found Hermione downstairs in
 the kitchen. She was being 
served coffee and hot rolls by Kr
eacher and wearing the slightly 
manic expression that Harry a
ssociated with exam review. 
Robes, she said under her breath, acknowledging their presence 
with a nervous nod and continuing to poke around in her beaded 
bag, Polyjuice Potion . . . Invisi
bility Cloak . . . Decoy Detonators 
. . . You should each take a couple ju
st in case. . . . Puking Pastilles, 
Nosebleed Nougat, Exte
ndable Ears . . . 
They gulped down their breakfast,
 then set off upstairs, Kreacher 
bowing them out and promising to
 have a steak-and-kidney pie 
ready for them when
 they returned. 
Bless him, said Ron fondly, and
 when you think 
I used to fan-
tasize about cutti
ng off his head and stic
king it on the wall. They made their way onto the fr
ont step with immense caution: 
They could see a couple of puffy-eyed Death Eaters watching the 
house from across the misty square. 
Hermione Disapparated with Ron first, then came back for 
Harry. After the usual brief spell of 
darkness and near suffocation, Harry 
found himself in the ti
ny alleyway where the 
first phase of their 
plan was scheduled to take place. 
It was as yet deserted, except for 
a couple of large bins; the first Ministry workers did not usually 
appear here until at least eight oclock. 
Right then, said Hermione, chec
king her watch. She ought to 
be here in about five minutes. When Ive Stunned her  
MAGIC  IS  MIGHT  237  Hermione, we know, said Ron st
ernly. And I thought we were 
supposed to open the door before she got here? 
Hermione squealed. 
I nearly forgot! Stand back  
She pointed her wand at the padloc
ked and heavily graffitied fire 
door beside them, which burst open with a crash. The dark corridor 
behind it led, as they knew from th
eir careful scouting trips, into an 
empty theater. Hermione pulled the 
door back toward her, to make 
it look as though it was still closed. 
And now, she said, turning back
 to face the other two in the 
alleyway, we put on the Cloak again  
 and we wait, Ron finished, throwing it over Hermiones head 
like a blanket over a birdcage 
and rolling his eyes at Harry. 
Little more than a minute later, there was a tiny 
pop and a little 
Ministry witch with flyaway gray hair Apparated feet from them, 

blinking a little in the sudden brig
htness; the sun had just come out 
from behind a cloud. She barely ha
d time to enjoy the unexpected 
warmth, however, before Hermiones silent Stunning Spell hit her 
in the chest and she toppled over. 
Nicely done, Hermione, said 
Ron, emerging from behind a 
bin beside the theater door as Harr
y took off the Invisibility Cloak. 
Together they carried the little witch into the dark passageway that 
led backstage. Hermione plucked a 
few hairs from the witchs head 
and added them to a flask of muddy
 Polyjuice Potion she had taken 
from the beaded bag. Ron was rumm
aging through the little witchs 
handbag. Shes Mafalda Hopkirk, he said
, reading a small card that iden-
tified their victim as an assistan
t in the Improper Use of Magic Of-
fice. Youd better take this, He
rmione, and here are the tokens. 
CHAPTER  TWELVE 
 238  He passed her several small golden
 coins, all embossed with the 
letters M.O.M., which he had taken from the witchs purse. 
Hermione drank the Polyjuice Po
tion, which was now a pleasant heliotrope color, and within se
conds stood before them, the double 
of Mafalda Hopkirk. As she remo
ved Mafaldas spectacles and put 
them on, Harry checked his watch. 
Were running late, Mr. Magical Maintenance will be here any 
second. 
They hurried to close the door on the real Mafalda; Harry and 
Ron threw the Invisibility Cloak 
over themselves but Hermione re-
mained in view, waiting. Se
conds later there was another 
pop, and 
a small, ferrety-looking wiza
rd appeared before them. Oh, hello, Mafalda. 
Hello! said Hermione in a 
quavery voice. How are you 
today? 
Not so good, actually, replie
d the little wizard, who looked 
thoroughly downcast. As Hermione and the wizard headed for the main road, Harry 
and Ron crept al
ong behind them. Im sorry to hear youre unde
r the weather, said Hermione, 
talking firmly over the 
little wizard as he tried to expound upon 
his problems; it was essential to st
op him from reaching the street. 
Here, have a sweet. 
Eh? Oh, no thanks  I insist! said Hermione aggressi
vely, shaking the bag of pastilles 
in his face. Looking ra
ther alarmed, the little wizard took one. 
The effect was instantaneous. The moment the pastille touched 
his tongue, the little wizard started 
vomiting so hard that he did  
 MAGIC  IS  MIGHT  239  not even notice as Hermione yanked 
a handful of hairs from the top 
of his head. Oh dear! she said, as he splatter
ed the alley with sick. Perhaps 
youd better take the day off! 
No  no! He choked and retche
d, trying to continue on his 
way despite being unable to walk 
straight. I must  today  must go  
But thats just silly! said Herm
ione, alarmed. You cant go to 
work in this state  I think you 
ought to go to St. Mungos and 
get them to sort you out! 
The wizard had collapsed, heaving, onto all fours, still trying to 
crawl toward the main street. 
You simply cant go to work like this! cried Hermione. 
At last he seemed to accept the truth of her words. Using a re-
pulsed Hermione to claw his way ba
ck into a standing position, he 
turned on the spot and vanished
, leaving nothing behind but the 
bag Ron had snatched from his hand
 as he went and some flying 
chunks of vomit. 
Urgh, said Hermione, holding up 
the skirts of her robe to avoid 
the puddles of sick. It would have
 made much less mess to Stun 
him too. Yeah, said Ron, emerging from under the cloak holding the 
wizards bag, but I still think a 
whole pile of unconscious bodies 
would have drawn more attention.
 Keen on his job, though, isnt 
he? Chuck us the hair 
and the potion, then. Within two minutes, Ron stood befo
re them, as small and ferrety 
as the sick wizard, and wearing th
e navy blue robe
s that had been 
folded in his bag. 

 CHAPTER  TWELVE 
 240  Weird he wasnt wearing them today, wasnt it, seeing how much 
he wanted to go? Anyway, Im Re
g Cattermole, according to the 
label in the back. Now wait here, Hermione told
 Harry, who was still under the 
Invisibility Cloak, and well be back with some hairs for you. 
He had to wait ten minutes, bu
t it seemed much longer to 
Harry, skulking alone in the sick
-splattered alleyw
ay beside the 
door concealing the Stunned Mafa
lda. Finally Ron and Hermione 
reappeared. 
We dont know who he is, Hermione said, passing Harry several 
curly black hairs, but hes gone
 home with a dreadful nosebleed! 
Here, hes pretty tall, youll need bigger robes. . . . 
She pulled out a set of the old 
robes Kreacher had laundered for 
them, and Harry retired to ta
ke the potion and change. Once the painful transformation was complete he was more than 
six feet tall and, from what he co
uld tell from his well-muscled arms, 
powerfully built. He also had a be
ard. Stowing the Invisibility Cloak 
and his glasses inside 
his new robes, he rejo
ined the other two. 
Blimey, thats scary, said Ro
n, looking up at Harry, who now 
towered over him. 
Take one of Mafaldas tokens, 
Hermione told Harry, and lets 
go, its nearly nine. 
They stepped out of the alleyway
 together. Fifty yards along the 
crowded pavement there were spik
ed black railings flanking two 
flights of steps, one labeled 
gentlemen
, the other 
ladies
. See you in a moment, then, said Hermione nervously, and she 
tottered off down the steps to 
ladies
. Harry and Ron joined a num-ber of oddly dressed men descending 
into what appeared to be an or-
dinary underground public toilet, 
tiled in grimy black and white. MAGIC  IS  MIGHT  241  Morning, Reg! called another wizard in navy blue robes as he 
let himself into a cubicle by insert
ing his golden token into a slot 
in the door. Blooming pain in the bum, this, eh? Forcing us all 
to get to work this way! Who are they expecting to turn up, Harry 
Potter? The wizard roared with laughter at
 his own wit. Ron gave a forced 
chuckle. Yeah, he said, stupid, isnt it? 
And he and Harry let themselv
es into adjoining cubicles. 
To Harrys left and right came th
e sound of flushing. He crouched 
down and peered through the gap at the bottom of the cubicle, just 
in time to see a pair 
of booted feet climbing in
to the toilet next door. 
He looked left and saw Ron blinking at him. 
We have to flush ourselves in? he whispered. 
Looks like it, Harry whispered 
back; his voice came out deep 
and gravelly. 
They both stood up. Feeling exce
ptionally foolish, Harry clam-
bered into the toilet. 
He knew at once that he had done the right thing; though he ap-
peared to be standing in water, his shoes, feet, and robes remained 

quite dry. He reached up, pulled 
the chain, and next moment had 
zoomed down a short chute, emerging out of a fireplace into the 
Ministry of Magic. 
He got up clumsily; there was a 
lot more of his 
body than he 
was accustomed to. The great Atrium seemed darker than Harry 
remembered it. Previously a golden 
fountain had filled the center of 
the hall, casting shimmering spots of light over the polished wooden 
floor and walls. Now a gigantic stat
ue of black stone dominated the 
scene. It was rather frightening, this vast sculpture of a witch and 
CHAPTER  TWELVE 
 242  a wizard sitting on ornately ca
rved thrones, looking down at the 
Ministry workers toppling out of 
fireplaces below them. Engraved 
in foot-high letters at the base
 of the statue were the words 
magic is might
. Harry received a heavy blow on 
the back of the legs: Another 
wizard had just flown out of the fireplace behind him. 
Out of the way,
 cant y  oh, sorry, Runcorn! 
Clearly frightened, the balding wizard hurried away. Appar-
ently the man whom Harry was im
personating, Runcorn, was 
intimidating. Psst! said a voice, and he looked around to see a wispy little 
witch and the ferrety wizard from
 Magical Maintenance gesturing 
to him from over beside the stat
ue. Harry hastened to join them. 
You got in all righ
t, then? Hermione 
whispered to Harry. 
No, hes still stuck in the bog, said Ron. 

Oh, very funny . . . Its horrible, 
isnt it? she said to Harry, who 
was staring up at the 
statue. Have you seen 
what theyre sitting 
on? Harry looked more closely and real
ized that what he had thought 
were decoratively carved thrones 
were actually mounds of carved 
humans: hundreds and hundreds of naked bodies, men, women, 
and children, all with rather stupid, ugly faces, twisted and pressed 
together to support the weight of the handsomely robed wizards. 
Muggles, whispered Hermione. I
n their rightful place. Come 
on, lets get going. 
They joined the stream of witc
hes and wizards moving toward 
the golden gates at the end of the 
hall, looking around as surrepti-
tiously as possible, but there was no 
sign of the distinctive figure of 
Dolores Umbridge. They passed through the gates and into a smaller 
MAGIC  IS  MIGHT  243  hall, where queues were forming in front of twenty golden grilles 
housing as many lifts. They had ba
rely joined the nearest one when 
a voice said, Cattermole! They looked around: Harrys stom
ach turned over. One of the 
Death Eaters who had witnessed 
Dumbledores death was striding toward them. The Ministry workers 
beside them fell silent, their 
eyes downcast; Harry could feel fe
ar rippling through them. The 
mans scowling, slightly brutish fa
ce was somehow at odds with his 
magnificent, sweeping robes, whic
h were embroidered with much 
gold thread. Someone in the crowd around the lifts called sycophan-

tically, Morning, Yaxley! Yaxley ignored them. 
I requested somebody from Magical Maintenance to sort out 
my office, Cattermole. Its
 still raining in there. 
Ron looked around as though ho
ping somebody else would in-
tervene, but nobody spoke. Raining . . . in your office? Thats  thats not good, is it? Ron gave a nervous laugh. Yaxleys eyes widened. 
You think its funny,
 Cattermole, do you? A pair of witches broke away fr
om the queue for the lift and 
bustled off. 
No, said Ron, no, of course  You realize that I am on my wa
y downstairs to interrogate your 
wife, Cattermole? In fact, Im quit
e surprised youre not down there 
holding her hand while she waits.
 Already given her up as a bad 
job, have you? Probably wise. Be sure and marry a pureblood next 
time. 
Hermione had let out a little sque
ak of horror. Yaxley looked at 
her. She coughed feebly and turned away. 
I  I  stammered Ron. 
CHAPTER  TWELVE 
 244  But if 
my wife were accused of bein
g a Mudblood, said Yaxley, 
 not that any woman I married wo
uld ever be mistaken for such 
filth  and the Head of the Depa
rtment of Magical Law Enforce-
ment needed a job doing, I would ma
ke it my priority to do that 
job, Cattermole. Do 
you understand me? 
Yes, whispered Ron. 
Then attend to it, Cattermole, and if my office is not completely 
dry within an hour, your wifes Bl
ood Status will be in even graver 
doubt than it is now. 
The golden grille before them 
clattered open. With a nod and 
unpleasant smile to Harry, who wa
s evidently expected to appreci-
ate this treatment of Cattermole, 
Yaxley swept away toward another 
lift. Harry, Ron, and Hermione ent
ered theirs, but nobody followed 
them: It was as if they were infecti
ous. The grilles shut with a clang 
and the lift began to move upward. 
What am I going to do? Ron asked the other two at once; he 
looked stricken. If I dont turn 
up, my wife  I mean, Cattermoles 
wife  Well come with you, we should stick together  began 
Harry, but Ron shook 
his head feverishly. 
Thats mental, we havent got much time. You two find Um-
bridge, Ill go and sort out Yaxley
s office  but how do I stop it 
raining? Try Finite Incantatem, said Herm
ione at once, that should stop 
the rain if its a hex or curse; if it doesnt, somethings gone wrong 
with an Atmospheric Charm, which 
will be more difficult to fix, so 
as an interim measure try Impervius to protect his belongings  
Say it again, slowly  said Ron, searching his pockets des-
perately for a quill, bu
t at that moment the li
ft juddered to a halt. 
MAGIC  IS  MIGHT  245  A disembodied female voice said, L
evel four, Department for the 
Regulation and Control of Magical 
Creatures, incorporating Beast, 
Being, and Spirit Divisions, Goblin Liaison Office, and Pest Advi-
sory Bureau, and the grilles slid 
open again, admitting a couple of 
wizards and several pale violet pape
r airplanes that fluttered around 
the lamp in the ceiling of the lift. 
Morning, Albert, said a bushily whiskered man, smiling at 
Harry. He glanced over at Ron an
d Hermione as th
e lift creaked 
upward once more; Hermione was now whispering frantic instruc-
tions to Ron. The wizard leaned 
toward Harry, leering, and mut-
tered, Dirk Cresswell, eh? From Goblin Liaison? Nice one, Albert. 
Im pretty confident Ill get his job now! 
He winked. Harry smiled back, ho
ping that this would suffice. 
The lift stopped; the gr
illes opened once more. Level two, Department of Magical Law Enforcement, includ-
ing the Improper Use of Magic Office, Auror Headquarters, and 
Wizengamot Administration Services, said the disembodied witchs 
voice. Harry saw Hermione give Ron a little push and he hurried out of 
the lift, followed by the other wi
zards, leaving Harry and Hermione 
alone. The moment the golden door 
had closed Hermione said, very 
fast, Actually, Harry, I think Id better go after him, I dont think he 
knows what hes doing and if he gets caught the whole thing  
Level one, Minister of Magic and Support Staff. 
The golden grilles slid apart again and Hermione gasped. Four 
people stood before them, two of them deep in conversation: a long-
haired wizard wearing magnificent robes of black and gold, and a 
squat, toadlike witch wearing a velvet bow in her short hair and 

clutching a clipboard to her chest. 
C H A P T E R  T H I R T E E N   246  THE MUGGLE-BORN 
REGISTRATION 
COMMISSION 
 h, Mafalda! said Umbridge, looking at Hermione. Trav-
ers sent you, did he? 
Y-yes, squeaked Hermione. 
Good, youll do perfectly well. 
Umbridge spoke to the wizard 
in black and gold. Thats that 
problem solved, Minister, if Ma-
falda can be spared for record-keep
ing we shall be able to start 
straightaway. She consulted her clipboard. Ten people today 

and one of them the wi
fe of a Ministry empl
oyee! Tut, tut . . . 
even here, in the heart of the Mini
stry! She stepped into the lift 
beside Hermione, as did the two wizards who had been listening 
to Umbridges conversation with the Minister. Well go straight 
down, Mafalda, youll find everyt
hing you need in the courtroom. 
Good morning, Albert, arent you getting out? Yes, of course, said Harry in Runcorns deep voice. 
Harry stepped out of the lift. Th
e golden grilles clanged shut 
behind him. Glancing over his
 shoulder, Harry saw Hermiones 
A THE  MUGGLE-BORN REGISTRATION  COMMISSION  247  anxious face sinking back out of sight,
 a tall wizard on either side of 
her, Umbridges velvet hair-b
ow level with her shoulder. 
What brings you up here, Runcorn? asked the new Minister of 
Magic. His long black hair and bear
d were streaked with silver, and 
a great overhanging forehead sha
dowed his glinting eyes, putting 
Harry in mind of a crab looking out from beneath a rock. 
Needed a quick word with, Har
ry hesitated for a fraction of a 
second, Arthur Weasley. Someone said he was up on level one. 
Ah, said Pius Thicknesse. Has
 he been caught having contact 
with an Undesirable? 
No, said Harry, his throat dr
y. No, nothing like that. 
Ah, well. Its only a matter of time, said Thicknesse. If you 
ask me, the blood traitors are as bad as the Mudbloods. Good day, 
Runcorn. 
Good day, Minister. 
Harry watched Thicknesse march away along the thickly carpeted 
corridor. The moment the Minister had passed out of sight, Harry 
tugged the Invisibility Cloak out 
from under his heavy black cloak, 
threw it over himself, and set off al
ong the corridor in the opposite 
direction. Runcorn was so tall th
at Harry was forced to stoop to 
make sure his big feet were hidden. 
Panic pulsed in the pit of his stomach. As he passed gleaming 
wooden door after gleaming w
ooden door, each bearing a small 
plaque with the owners name an
d occupation upon it, the might 
of the Ministry, its complexity, its 
impenetrability, seemed to force 
itself upon him so that the plan 
he had been carefully concocting 
with Ron and Hermione over the pa
st four weeks seemed laughably 
childish. They had concentrated al
l their efforts on getting inside 
without being detected: They had 
not given a moments thought to 
CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  248  what they would do if they were
 forced to separate. Now Hermi-
one was stuck in court proceedings
, which would undoubtedly last 
hours; Ron was struggling to 
do magic that Harry was sure was 
beyond him, a womans liberty possibly depending on the outcome; 
and he, Harry, was wandering around on the top floor when he 
knew perfectly well that his quarry had just gone down in the lift. 
He stopped walking, leaned against a wall, and tried to decide 
what to do. The silence pressed up
on him: There was no bustling 
or talk or swift footsteps here; 
the purple-carpete
d corridors were as hushed as though the 
Muffliato charm had been cast over the 
place. Her office must be up here,
 Harry thought. 
It seemed most unlikely that 
Umbridge would keep her jewelry 
in her office, but on the other hand
 it seemed foolish not to search 
it to make sure. He therefore set off along the corridor again, pass-

ing nobody but a frowning wizard who was murmuring instruc-
tions to a quill that floated in front of him, scribbling on a trail of 
parchment. 
Now paying attention to the name
s on the doors, Harry turned 
a corner. Halfway along the next corridor he emerged into a wide, 

open space where a dozen witches and wizards sat in rows at small 
desks not unlike school desks, th
ough much more highly polished 
and free from graffiti. Harry paused
 to watch them, for the effect was 
quite mesmerizing. They were all 
waving and twiddl
ing their wands 
in unison, and squares of colored 
paper were flying in every direc-
tion like little pink kites. Afte
r a few seconds, Harry realized that 
there was a rhythm to the proceedi
ngs, that the papers all formed 
the same pattern; and after a few more seconds he realized that what 

he was watching was the creation 
of pamphlets  that the paper 
THE  MUGGLE-BORN REGISTRATION  COMMISSION  249  squares were pages, which, when 
assembled, folded, and magicked 
into place, fell into neat stac
ks beside each 
witch or wizard. 
Harry crept closer, although the wo
rkers were so intent on what 
they were doing that he doubted th
ey would notice a carpet-muffled 
footstep, and he slid a completed 
pamphlet from the pile beside a 
young witch. He examined it beneath the Invisibility Cloak. Its pink 
cover was emblazoned with a golden title: 
MUDBLOODS and the Dangers They Pose to 
a Peaceful Pure-Blood Society 
Beneath the title was a picture of 
a red rose with a simpering face 
in the middle of its petals, bein
g strangled by a green weed with 
fangs and a scowl. There was no au
thors name upon the pamphlet, 
but again, the scars on the back of
 his right hand s
eemed to tingle 
as he examined it. Then the youn
g witch beside him confirmed his 
suspicion as she said, still waving
 and twirling her wand, Will the 
old hag be interrogating Mudbloods all day, does anyone know? 
Careful, said the wizard beside
 her, glancing around nervously; 
one of his pages slippe
d and fell to the floor. 
What, has she got magic ears 
as well as an eye, now? 
The witch glanced toward the sh
ining mahogany door facing the 
space full of pamphlet
-makers; Harry looked too, and rage reared 
in him like a snake. Where there might have been a peephole on 

a Muggle front door, a large, round 
eye with a bright blue iris had 
been set into the wood  an eye th
at was shockingly familiar to 
anybody who had known Alastor Moody. For a split second Harry forgot where he was and what he was 
CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  250  doing there: He even forgot that he 
was invisible. He strode straight 
over to the door to examine the ey
e. It was not moving: It gazed 
blindly upward, frozen. The 
plaque beneath it read: 
 Dolores Umbridge
 Senior Undersecretary to the Minister  Below that, a slightly sh
inier new plaque read: 
 Head of the Muggle-born 
Registration Commission  Harry looked back at the dozen pa
mphlet-makers: Though they 
were intent upon their 
work, he could hardly su
ppose that they would 
not notice if the door of an empty 
office opened in front of them. He 
therefore withdrew from an inner 
pocket an odd object with little 
waving legs and a rubber-bulbed horn for a body. Crouching down 
beneath the Cloak, he placed the Decoy Deto
nator on the ground. It scuttled away at once through the legs of the witches and wiz-
ards in front of him. A few moments later, during which Harry 
waited with his hand upon the 
doorknob, there came a loud bang 
and a great deal of acrid black sm
oke billowed from a corner. The 
young witch in the front row shriek
ed: Pink pages flew everywhere 
as she and her fellows jumped up, looking around for the source 
of the commotion. Harry turned the doorknob, stepped into Um-
bridges office, and closed the door behind him. He felt he had stepped back in 
time. The room was exactly like 
Umbridges office at Hogwarts: La
ce draperies, doilies, and dried 
flowers covered every available su
rface. The walls bore the same 
THE  MUGGLE-BORN REGISTRATION  COMMISSION  251  ornamental plates, each featuring 
a highly colored, beribboned kit-
ten, gamboling and frisking with 
sickening cuteness. The desk was 
covered with a flouncy, flowered 
cloth. Behind Mad-Eyes eye, a 
telescopic attachment enabled Umbr
idge to spy on the workers on 
the other side of the door. Harry 
took a look through it and saw 
that they were all still gathered
 around the Decoy Detonator. He 
wrenched the telescope out of the door, leaving a hole behind, pulled 

the magical eyeball out of it, and 
placed it in his pocket. Then he 
turned to face the room again,
 raised his wand, and murmured, 
Accio Locket. Nothing happened, but he had not expected it to; no doubt Um-
bridge knew all about protective 
charms and spells. He therefore 
hurried behind her desk and began pulling open the drawers. He 
saw quills and notebo
oks and Spellotape; enchanted paper clips 
that coiled snakelike fr
om their drawer and ha
d to be beaten back; 
a fussy little lace box full of spare 
hair bows and clips; but no sign 
of a locket. 
There was a filing cabi
net behind the desk: Harry set to search-
ing it. Like Filchs filing cabinets 
at Hogwarts, it was full of fold-
ers, each labeled with a name. 
It was not until Harry reached the 
bottommost drawer that he saw something to distract him from his 
search: Mr. Weasleys file. 
He pulled it out and opened it. ARTHUR WEASLEY blood status: 
Pureblood, but with unacceptable pro-
Muggle leanings. Known member of the Order of the Phoenix. 
CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  252  family: Wife (pureblood), seven children, two youngest at Hogwarts. 
NB: Youngest son currently at home, seriously ill, Ministry 

inspectors have confirmed. 
security status: TRACKED. All movements are being 
monitored. Strong likelihood Undesirable 

No. 1 will contact (has stayed with Weasley family previously) 
Undesirable Number One, Ha
rry muttered under his breath 
as he replaced Mr. Weasleys folder
 and shut the drawer. He had an 
idea he knew who that was, and sure enough, as he straightened 

up and glanced around the office 
for fresh hiding places, he saw a 
poster of himself on the wall, with the words 
undesirable no. 1 emblazoned across his chest. A little 
pink note was stuck to it with a 
picture of a kitten in 
the corner. Harry moved across to read it and 
saw that Umbridge
 had written, To be punished.
 Angrier than ever, he proceeded 
to grope in the bottoms of the 
vases and baskets of dried flowers, but was not at all surprised that the 
locket was not there. He gave the 
office one last sw
eeping look, and 
his heart skipped a beat. Dumbledore was staring at him from a small 
rectangular mirror, propped up on
 a bookcase beside the desk. 
Harry crossed the room at a run an
d snatched it up, but realized 
the moment he touched it that it
 was not a mirror at all. Dumble-
dore was smiling wistfully out of the front cover of a glossy book. 

Harry had not immediately noticed the curly green writing across his hat  
The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore
  nor the slightly 
smaller writing across his chest: by 
Rita Skeeter, bestselling author 
of Armando Dippet: Master or Moron
? THE  MUGGLE-BORN REGISTRATION  COMMISSION  253  Harry opened the book at random and saw a full-page photo-
graph of two teenage boys, both 
laughing immoderately with their 
arms around each others should
ers. Dumbledore, now with elbow-
length hair, had grown a tiny wispy beard that recalled the one on 
Krums chin that had so annoyed 
Ron. The boy who roared in si-
lent amusement beside Dumbledore 
had a gleeful, wild look about 
him. His golden hair fell in curls to
 his shoulders. Harry wondered 
whether it was a young Doge, but b
efore he could check the caption, 
the door of the office opened. 
If Thicknesse had not been lookin
g over his shoulder as he en-
tered, Harry would not have had time to pull the Invisibility Cloak 
over himself. As it was, he thou
ght Thicknesse might have caught 
a glimpse of movement, because for a moment or two he remained 
quite still, staring curiously at
 the place where Harry had just 
vanished. Perhaps deciding that all he had seen was Dumbledore 

scratching his nose on the front 
of the book, for Harry had hastily 
replaced it upon the shelf, Thic
knesse finally walked to the desk 
and pointed his wand at the quill st
anding ready in the ink pot. It 
sprang out and began scribbling a note to Umbridge. Very slowly, 
hardly daring to breath
e, Harry backed out of the office into the 
open area beyond. The pamphlet-makers were still cl
ustered around the remains of 
the Decoy Detonator, which continue
d to hoot feebly as it smoked. 
Harry hurried off up the corridor 
as the young witch said, I bet 
it sneaked up here from Experimental Charms, theyre so careless, 
remember that poisonous duck? 
Speeding back toward the lifts, Ha
rry reviewed his options. It had 
never been likely that the locket wa
s here at the Ministry, and there 
was no hope of bewitching its wh
ereabouts out of Umbridge while 
CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  254  she was sitting in a crowded court. Their priority now had to be to 
leave the Ministry before they were exposed, and try again another 

day. The first thing to do was to fi
nd Ron, and then they could work 
out a way of extracting Hermione from the courtroom. 
The lift was empty when it arri
ved. Harry jumped in and pulled 
off the Invisibility Cloak as it 
started its descent. To his enormous 
relief, when it rattled to a halt at
 level two, a soaking-wet and wild-
eyed Ron got in. 
M-morning, he stammered to Ha
rry as the lift set off again. 
Ron, its me, Harry! 

Harry! Blimey, I forgot what you looked like  why isnt Her-
mione with you? 
She had to go down to the 
courtrooms with Umbridge, she 
couldnt refuse, and  
But before Harry could finish th
e lift had stopped again: The 
doors opened and Mr. Weasley walked inside, talking to an el-
derly witch whose blonde hair was teased so high it resembled an 
anthill. 
. . . I quite understand what 
youre saying, Wakanda, but Im 
afraid I cannot be party to  
Mr. Weasley broke off; he had no
ticed Harry. It 
was very strange to have Mr. Weasley glare at him wi
th that much dislike. The lift 
doors closed and the four of them trundled downward once more. 
Oh, hello, Reg, said Mr. Weasle
y, looking around at the sound 
of steady dripping from Rons robes.
 Isnt your wife in for question-
ing today? Er  whats happened
 to you? Why are you so wet? 
Yaxleys office is raining, said
 Ron. He addressed Mr. Weasleys 
shoulder, and Harry felt sure he was scared that his father might rec-

ognize him if they looked directly 
into each others eyes. I couldnt 
THE  MUGGLE-BORN REGISTRATION  COMMISSION  255  stop it, so theyve sent me to get Bernie  Pillsworth, I think they 
said  
Yes, a lot of offices have been ra
ining lately, said Mr. Weasley. 
Did you try Meteolojinx Recant
o? It worked for Bletchley. 
Meteolojinx Recanto? whispere
d Ron. No, I didnt. Thanks, 
D  I mean, thanks, Arthur. The lift doors opened; the old witch with the anthill hair left, 
and Ron darted past her out of sight. Harry made to follow him, 
but found his path blocked as Percy 
Weasley strode into the lift, his 
nose buried in some papers he was reading. 
Not until the doors had clanged shut again did Percy realize he 
was in a lift with his father. He 
glanced up, saw Mr. Weasley, turned 
radish red, and left the lift the 
moment the doors opened again. For 
the second time, Harry tried to get 
out, but this time found his way 
blocked by Mr. Weasleys arm. One moment, Runcorn. 
The lift doors closed and as they clanked down another floor, Mr. 
Weasley said, I hear you laid in
formation about Dirk Cresswell. 
Harry had the impression that Mr. Weasleys anger was no less 
because of the brush with Percy. He decided his best chance was 

to act stupid. 
Sorry? he said. 
Dont pretend, Runcorn, said Mr
. Weasley fiercely. You tracked 
down the wizard who faked his family tree, didnt you? 
I  so what if I did? said Harry. 
So Dirk Cresswell is ten times 
the wizard you are, said Mr. 
Weasley quietly, as the lift sank ever lower. And if he survives Az-
kaban, youll have to answer to 
him, not to mention his wife, his 
sons, and his friends  CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  256  Arthur, Harry interrupted, you
 know youre being tracked, 
dont you? Is that a threat, Runcorn? said Mr. Weasley loudly. 
No, said Harry, its a fact! Theyre watching your every 
move  
The lift doors opened. They had 
reached the Atrium. Mr. Weasley gave Harry a scathing look an
d swept from the lift. Harry stood 
there, shaken. He wished he was impersonating somebody other 
than Runcorn. . . . The 
lift doors clanged shut. Harry pulled out the Invisibility 
Cloak and put it back on. He 
would try to extricate Hermione 
on his own while Ron was dealing 
with the raining office. When the doors opened, he stepped out into 
a torch-lit stone passageway quit
e different from the wood-paneled 
and carpeted corridors above. As th
e lift rattled away again, Harry 
shivered slightly, look
ing toward the distant 
black door that marked 
the entrance to the Department of Mysteries. 
He set off, his destination no
t the black door, but the doorway he remembered on the left-hand si
de, which opened onto the flight 
of stairs down to the court chambe
rs. His mind grappled with pos-
sibilities as he crept down them: 
He still had a couple of Decoy 
Detonators, but perhaps it would be better to simply knock on the 
courtroom door, enter as Runcorn, and ask for a quick word with 
Mafalda? Of course, he did not know whether Runcorn was suf-

ficiently important to get away with this, and even if he managed 
it, Hermiones non-reappearance mi
ght trigger a search before they 
were clear of the Ministry. . . . 
Lost in thought, he did not i
mmediately register the unnatural 
chill that was creeping over him, as 
if he were descending into fog. 
It was becoming colder and colder 
with every step he took: a cold 
THE  MUGGLE-BORN REGISTRATION  COMMISSION  257  that reached right down into his throat and tore at his lungs. And 
then he felt that stealing sense of
 despair, of hopelessness, filling 
him, expanding inside him. . . . 
Dementors, he thought. 
And as he reached the foot of the stairs and turned to his right he 
saw a dreadful scene. The dark passage outside the courtrooms was 
packed with tall, black-hooded figu
res, their faces completely hid-
den, their ragged breathing the only sound in the place. The petrified 
Muggle-borns brought in for ques
tioning sat huddled and shivering 
on hard wooden benches. Most of them were hiding their faces in 

their hands, perhaps in an instinctive attempt to shield themselves 
from the dementors greedy mouths. Some were accompanied by 
families, others sat alone. The de
mentors were gliding up and down 
in front of them, and the cold, an
d the hopelessness, and the despair of the place laid themselves up
on Harry like 
a curse. . . . Fight it,
 he told himself, but he knew that he could not conjure 
a Patronus here without revealing himself instantly. So he moved 
forward as silently as he could, 
and with every step he took numb-
ness seemed to steal over his brai
n, but he forced himself to think 
of Hermione and of Ron, who needed him. 
Moving through the towering bl
ack figures was terrifying: The 
eyeless faces hidden beneath their hoods turned as he passed, and he 
felt sure that they sensed him, sensed, perhaps, a human presence 

that still had some hope
, some resilience. . . . 
And then, abruptly an
d shockingly amid the frozen silence, one 
of the dungeon doors on the left of the corridor was flung open and 
screams echoed out of it. 
No, no, Im half-blood, Im half-b
lood, I tell you! My father was 
a wizard, he 
was, look him up, Arkie Alde
rton, hes a well-known 
CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  258  broomstick designer, look him up, I tell you  get your hands off 
me, get your hands off  
This is your final warning, said
 Umbridges soft voice, magi-
cally magnified so that it sounde
d clearly over the mans desperate 
screams. If you struggle, you will
 be subjected to the Dementors 
Kiss. The mans screams subsided, but dry sobs echoed through the 
corridor. 
Take him away, said Umbridge. 
Two dementors appeared in the doorway of the courtroom, their 
rotting, scabbed hands clutching the upper arms of a wizard who 
appeared to be fainting. They glided away down the corridor with 
him, and the darkness they traile
d behind them swallowed him 
from sight. 
Next  Mary Cattermo
le, called Umbridge. A small woman stood up; she was trembling from head to foot. 
Her dark hair was smoothed back into a bun and she wore long, 
plain robes. Her face was comple
tely bloodless. As she passed the 
dementors, Harry saw her shudder. 
He did it instinctively, without an
y sort of plan, because he hated 
the sight of her walking alone into
 the dungeon: As the door began 
to swing closed, he slipped in
to the courtroom behind her. 
It was not the same room in which he had once been interrogated 
for improper use of magic. This 
one was much smaller, though the 
ceiling was quite as high; it gave 
the claustrophobic sense of being 
stuck at the bottom
 of a deep well. 
There were more dementors in here, casting their freezing aura 
over the place; they stood like fa
celess sentinels in the corners far-
thest from the high, raised platform. Here, behind a balustrade, sat 
THE  MUGGLE-BORN REGISTRATION  COMMISSION  259  Umbridge, with Yaxley on one side
 of her, and Hermione, quite as 
white-faced as Mrs. Cattermole, on
 the other. At the foot of the 
platform, a bright-silver, long-hai
red cat prowled up and down, up 
and down, and Harry realized that 
it was there to protect the pros-
ecutors from the despair that eman
ated from the dementors: That 
was for the accused to feel, not the accusers. 
Sit down, said Umbridge 
in her soft, silky voice. 
Mrs. Cattermole stumbled to the 
single seat in the middle of the 
floor beneath the raised platform. The moment she had sat down, 
chains clinked out of the arms of the chair and bound her there. You are Mary Elizabeth Ca
ttermole? asked Umbridge. 
Mrs. Cattermole gave 
a single, shaky nod. Married to Reginald Cattermol
e of the Magical Maintenance 
Department? Mrs. Cattermole burst into tears. 
I dont know where he is, he wa
s supposed to meet me here! 
Umbridge ignored her. 
Mother to Maisie, Ellie, 
and Alfred Cattermole? 
Mrs. Cattermole sobbed harder than ever. 
Theyre frightened, they thin
k I might not come home  
Spare us, spat Yaxley. The br
ats of Mudbloods do not stir our 
sympathies. 
Mrs. Cattermoles sobs masked Ha
rrys footsteps as he made his 
way carefully toward the steps that led up to the raised platform. The 
moment he had passed the place wher
e the Patronus cat patrolled, he 
felt the change in temperature: It
 was warm and comfortable here. 
The Patronus, he was sure, was Umbridges, and it glowed brightly 
because she was so happy here, in 
her element, upholding the twisted 
laws she had helped to write. Slowly and very carefully he edged 
CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  260  his way along the platform behind Umbridge, Yaxley, and Hermi-
one, taking a seat be
hind the latter. He wa
s worried about making 
Hermione jump. He thought of casting the 
Muffliato charm upon 
Umbridge and Yaxley, but even murmuring the word might cause 
Hermione alarm. Then Umbridge ra
ised her voice to address Mrs. 
Cattermole, and Harry 
seized his chance. 
Im behind you, he whispered into Hermiones ear. 

As he had expected, she jumped so
 violently she nearly overturned 
the bottle of ink with which she 
was supposed to be recording the 
interview, but both Umbridge and 
Yaxley were concentrating upon 
Mrs. Cattermole, and this went unnoticed. 
A wand was taken from you upon
 your arrival at the Ministry 
today, Mrs. Cattermole, Umbrid
ge was saying. Eight-and-three-
quarter inches, cherry, unicorn-hair core. Do you recognize that 
description? Mrs. Cattermole nodded, mopping her eyes on her sleeve. 
Could you please tell us from 
which witch or wizard you took 
that wand? T-took? sobbed Mrs. Cattermole. 
I didnt t-take it from any-
body. I b-bought it when I was el
even years old. It  it  it  
chose me. 
She cried harder than ever. 
Umbridge laughed a soft girlish 
laugh that made Harry want to 
attack her. She leaned forward over 
the barrier, the better to observe 
her victim, and something gold 
swung forward too, and dangled 
over the void: the locket. 
Hermione had seen it; she let out a little squeak, but Umbridge 
and Yaxley, still intent upon thei
r prey, were deaf to everything 
else. THE  MUGGLE-BORN REGISTRATION  COMMISSION  261  No, said Umbridge, no, I don
t think so, Mrs. Cattermole. 
Wands only choose witches or wizards. You are not a witch. I have 

your responses to the questionnaire that was sent to you here  
Mafalda, pass them to me. 
Umbridge held out a small hand: Sh
e looked so toadlike at that 
moment that Harry was quite surprised not to see webs between 
the stubby fingers. Hermiones hand
s were shaking with shock. She 
fumbled in a pile of documents balanced on the chair beside her, 
finally withdrawing a sheaf of parchment with Mrs. Cattermoles 
name on it. 
Thats  thats pretty, Dolores, she said, pointing at the pen-
dant gleaming in the ruffled 
folds of Umbridges blouse. What? snapped Umbridge, glancing down. Oh yes  an old 
family heirloom, she sa
id, patting the locket 
lying on her large bo-
som. The 
S stands for Selwyn. . . . I am related to the Selwyns. . . . 
Indeed, there are few pure-blood fami
lies to whom I am not related. 
. . . A pity, she continued in a lo
uder voice, flicking through Mrs. 
Cattermoles questionnaire, that 
the same cannot be said for you. 
Parents
 professions: greengrocers.
 
Yaxley laughed jeeringly. Below, th
e fluffy silver cat patrolled up 
and down, and the dementors stood waiting in the corners. 
It was Umbridges lie that brought the blood surging into Harrys 
brain and obliterated hi
s sense of caution  that the locket she 
had taken as a bribe from a petty 
criminal was being used to bol-
ster her own pure-blood credentials
. He raised his wand, not even 
troubling to keep it concealed be
neath the Invisibility Cloak, and 
said, Stupefy
! There was a flash of red light; 
Umbridge crumpled and her fore-
head hit the edge of the balustrade: Mrs. Cattermoles papers slid 
CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  262  off her lap onto the floor and, dow
n below, the prowling silver cat 
vanished. Ice-cold air hit them li
ke an oncoming wind: Yaxley, con-
fused, looked around for the sour
ce of the trouble and saw Harrys 
disembodied hand and wand pointing
 at him. He tried to draw his 
own wand, but too late: Stupefy
! Yaxley slid to the ground to
 lie curled on the floor. 
Harry! 
Hermione, if you think I was 
going to sit here and let her 
pretend  
Harry, Mrs. Cattermole! 
Harry whirled around, throwing of
f the Invisibility Cloak; down 
below, the dementors had moved ou
t of their corners; they were 
gliding toward the woman chained to the chair: Whether because 
the Patronus had vanished or becaus
e they sensed that their masters 
were no longer in control, they se
emed to have abandoned restraint. 
Mrs. Cattermole let out a terrible scre
am of fear as a slimy, scabbed 
hand grasped her chin and forced her face back. 
EXPECTO PATRONUM
! The silver stag soared from the tip of Harrys wand and leaped 
toward the dementors, which fell back and melted into the dark 

shadows again. The stags light, 
more powerful and more warming 
than the cats protection, filled the whole dungeon as it cantered 
around and around the room. 
Get the Horcrux, 
Harry told Hermione. 
He ran back down the steps, stuffi
ng the Invisibility Cloak back 
into his bag, and approached Mrs. Cattermole. 
You? she whispered, gazing into
 his face. But  but Reg said 
you were the one who submitte
d my name for questioning! 
Did I? muttered Harry, tugging 
at the chains binding her arms. 
THE  MUGGLE-BORN REGISTRATION  COMMISSION  263  Well, Ive had a change of heart. 
Diffindo! Nothing happened. 
Hermione, how do I get 
rid of these chains? Wait, Im trying so
mething up here  
Hermione, were surrounded by dementors! 
I know that, Harry, but if she 
wakes up and the lockets gone 
 I need to duplicate it  
Geminio
! There . . . That should fool 
her. . . . Hermione came running downstairs. 
Lets see. . . . Relashio
! The chains clinked and withdrew in
to the arms of the chair. Mrs. 
Cattermole looked just as fr
ightened as ever before. 
I dont understand, she whispered. 
Youre going to leave here with us, said Harry, pulling her to 
her feet. Go home, grab your chil
dren, and get out, get out of the 
country if youve got to. Disguise
 yourselves and run. Youve seen 
how it is, you wont get anythin
g like a fair hearing here. 
Harry, said Hermione, how are we going to get out of here 
with all those dementors outside the door? Patronuses, said Harry, pointing
 his wand at his own: The stag 
slowed and walked, still gleaming
 brightly, toward the door. As 
many as we can muster
; do yours, Hermione. 
Expec  Expecto patronum, said Hermione. Nothing hap-
pened. Its the only spell she ever ha
s trouble with, Harry told a com-
pletely bemused Mrs. Cattermole. Bit
 unfortunate, really . . . Come 
on, Hermione. . . . 
Expecto patronum
! A silver otter burst from the end of Hermiones wand and swam 
gracefully through the air to join the stag. CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  264  Cmon, said Harry, and he led 
Hermione and Mrs. Cattermole 
to the door. When the Patronuses glided out of
 the dungeon there were cries 
of shock from the people waiting 
outside. Harry looked around; the 
dementors were falling back on bo
th sides of them, melding into 
the darkness, scattering before the silver creatures. 
Its been decided that you should 
all go home and go into hiding 
with your families, Harry told th
e waiting Muggle-borns, who were 
dazzled by the light of the Patron
uses and still cowering slightly. 
Go abroad if you can. Just get we
ll away from the Ministry. Thats 
the  er  new official position. No
w, if youll just follow the Pa-
tronuses, youll be able to leave from the Atrium. 
They managed to get up the stone 
steps without being intercepted, 
but as they approached the lifts Harry started to have misgivings. 
If they emerged into the Atrium with a silver stag, an otter soaring 

alongside it, and twenty or so peop
le, half of them accused Muggle-
borns, he could not help feeling 
that they would attract unwanted 
attention. He had just reached th
is unwelcome conclusion when the 
lift clanged to a halt in front of them. 
Reg! screamed Mrs. Cattermol
e, and she threw herself into 
Rons arms. Runcorn let me out, he attacked Umbridge and Yaxley, 
and hes told all of us to leave th
e country, I think wed better do it, 
Reg, I really do, lets hurry home and fetch the children and  why 

are you so wet? 
Water, muttered Ron, disengaging himself. Harry, they know 
there are intruders inside the Mini
stry, something about a hole in 
Umbridges office door, I reckon weve got five minu
tes if that  Hermiones Patronus vanished with a 
pop as she turned a horror-
struck face to Harry. 
THE  MUGGLE-BORN REGISTRATION  COMMISSION  265  Harry, if were trapped here  ! We wont be if we move fast, said Harry. He addressed the silent 
group behind them, who were all gawping at him. 
Whos got wands? 
About half of them raised their hands. 
Okay, all of you who havent go
t wands need to attach yourself 
to somebody who has. Well need to be fast before they stop us. 

Come on. 
They managed to cram themselves into two lifts. Harrys Patro-
nus stood sentinel before the golden 
grilles as they shut and the lifts 
began to rise. Level eight, said the witchs cool voice, Atrium. 
Harry knew at once that they we
re in trouble. The Atrium was 
full of people moving 
from fireplace to fireplace, sealing them off. 
Harry! squeaked Hermione. What are we going to  ? 
STOP! Harry thundered, and th
e powerful voice of Runcorn 
echoed through the Atrium: The 
wizards sealing the fireplaces 
froze. Follow me, he whispered 
to the group of terrified Muggle-
borns, who moved forward in a 
huddle, shepherded by Ron and 
Hermione. 
Whats up, Albert? said the same balding wizard who had fol-
lowed Harry out of th
e fireplace earlier. He looked nervous. 
This lot need to leave 
before you seal the ex
its, said Harry with 
all the authority he could muster. 
The group of wizards in front of him looked at one another. 
Weve been told to seal all exits and not let anyone  
Are you contradicting me? Harry blustered. Would you like me 
to have your family tree examin
ed, like I had Dirk Cresswells? 
Sorry! gasped the balding wizard, backing away. I didnt mean 
CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  266  nothing, Albert, but I thought . . . 
I thought they were in for ques-
tioning and . . . 
Their blood is pure, said Harry, and his deep voice echoed im-
pressively through the hall. Purer 
than many of yours, I daresay. 
Off you go, he boomed to the Mu
ggle-borns, who scurried forward 
into the fireplaces and began to 
vanish in pairs. The Ministry wiz-
ards hung back, some looking conf
used, others scared and resent-
ful. Then: 
Mary! Mrs. Cattermole looked over her 
shoulder. The real Reg Catter-
mole, no longer vomiting but pale
 and wan, had just come running 
out of a lift. 
R-Reg? 
She looked from her husband 
to Ron, who 
swore loudly. 
The balding wizard gaped, his he
ad turning ludicrously from one 
Reg Cattermole to the other. Hey  whats going 
on? What is this? Seal the exit! SEAL IT! 
Yaxley had burst out of
 another lift and was running toward the 
group beside the fireplaces, into which all of the Muggle-borns but 

Mrs. Cattermole had now vanished
. As the balding wizard lifted 
his wand, Harry raised an enormous fist and punched him, sending 
him flying through the air. 
Hes been helping Muggle-borns escape, Yaxley! Harry 
shouted. 
The balding wizards colleagues se
t up an uproar, under cover of 
which Ron grabbed Mrs. Cattermole
, pulled her into the still-open 
fireplace, and disappeared. Confused, Yaxley looked from Harry to  
 THE  MUGGLE-BORN REGISTRATION  COMMISSION  267  the punched wizard, while the real
 Reg Cattermole screamed, My 
wife! Who was that 
with my wife? Whats going on? 
Harry saw Yaxleys head turn, saw 
an inkling of the truth dawn 
in that brutish face. 
Come on! Harry shouted at Hermione; he seized her hand and 
they jumped into the fireplace togeth
er as Yaxleys curse sailed over 
Harrys head. They spun for a few seconds before shooting up out of 

a toilet into a cubicle. Harry fl
ung open the door; Ron was standing there beside the sinks, still wrestling wi
th Mrs. Cattermole. Reg, I dont understand  

Let go, Im not your husband,
 youve got to go home! 
There was a noise in the cubi
cle behind them; Harry looked 
around; Yaxley had just appeared. 
LETS GO! Harry yelled. He 
seized Hermione by the hand 
and Ron by the arm and turned on the spot. 
Darkness engulfed them, along with the sensation of compressing 
bands, but something was wrong. 
. . . Hermiones hand seemed to 
be sliding out of his grip. . . . 
He wondered whether he was going to suffocate; he could not 
breathe or see and the only solid things in the world were Rons arm 

and Hermiones fingers, which we
re slowly slipping away. . . . 
And then he saw the door of nu
mber twelve, Grimmauld Place, 
with its serpent door knocker, but 
before he could draw breath, there 
was a scream and a flash of purple
 light; Hermiones hand was sud-
denly vicelike upon his and everything went dark again. 
C H A P T E R  F O U R T E E N   268  THE THIEF 
   arry opened his eyes and was 
dazzled by go
ld and green; 
he had no idea what had ha
ppened, he only knew that 
he was lying on what seemed to be leaves and twigs. Struggling to 
draw breath into lungs that felt fl
attened, he blinked and realized 
that the gaudy glare was sunlight
 streaming through a canopy of 
leaves far above him. Then an object twitched close to his face. He 
pushed himself onto his hands and 
knees, ready to face some small, 
fierce creature, but saw that the object was Rons foot. Looking 
around, Harry saw that they and He
rmione were lying on a forest 
floor, apparently alone. 
Harrys first thought was of the Forbidden Forest, and for a mo-
ment, even though he knew how 
foolish and dangerous it would 
be for them to appear in the gr
ounds of Hogwarts
, his heart leapt 
at the thought of sneaking throug
h the trees to Hagrids hut. How-
ever, in the few moments it took 
for Ron to give a low groan and 
Harry to start crawling to
ward him, he realized 
that this was not the 
H THE  THIEF  269  Forbidden Forest: The trees looked 
younger, they were more widely 
spaced, the ground clearer. 
He met Hermione, also on her 
hands and knees, at Rons head. 
The moment his eyes fell upon Ron,
 all other concerns fled Harrys 
mind, for blood drenched the whole of Rons left side and his face 
stood out, grayish-white, against the leaf-strewn earth. The Polyjuice 
Potion was wearing off now: Ron 
was halfway between Cattermole 
and himself in appearance, his ha
ir turning redder 
and redder as 
his face drained of the little color it had left. Whats happened to him? 

Splinched, said Hermione, her 
fingers already busy at Rons 
sleeve, where the blood was wettest and darkest. Harry watched, horrified, as she 
tore open Rons shirt. He had 
always thought of Splinching as something comical, but this . . . 
His insides crawled unpleasantly as
 Hermione laid bare Rons up-
per arm, where a great chunk of flesh was missing, scooped cleanly 
away as though by a knife. 
Harry, quickly, in my bag, ther
es a small bottle labeled Essence 
of Dittany  
Bag  right  

Harry sped to the place where 
Hermione had landed, seized the 
tiny beaded bag, and thrust his hand inside it. At once, object after 
object began presenting 
itself to his touch: He felt the leather spines 
of books, woolly sleeves of jumpers, heel
s of shoes  Quickly
! He grabbed his wand from the gr
ound and pointed it into the 
depths of the magical bag. 
Accio Dittany! A small brown bottle zoomed out 
of the bag; he caught it and 
CHAPTER  FOURTEEN  270  hastened back to Hermione and Ro
n, whose eyes were now half-
closed, strips of white eyeball all that were visible between his lids. 
Hes fainted, said Hermione, wh
o was also rather pale; she no 
longer looked like Mafalda, though her hair was still gray in places. 
Unstopper it for me, Harr
y, my hands are shaking. 
Harry wrenched the stopper off th
e little bottle, Hermione took 
it and poured three dr
ops of the potion onto the bleeding wound. 
Greenish smoke billowed upward and when it had cleared, Harry 
saw that the bleeding had stoppe
d. The wound now looked several 
days old; new skin stretched over what had just been open flesh. 
Wow, said Harry. 
Its all I feel safe doing, said He
rmione shakily. There are spells 
that would put him completely right, but I darent try in case I do 
them wrong and cause more damage. 
. . . Hes lost so much blood 
already. . . . 
How did he get hurt? I mean 
 Harry shook his head, trying 
to clear it, to make sense of whatever had just taken place  why 
are we here? I thought we were 
going back to Grimmauld Place? 
Hermione took a deep breath. 
She looked close to tears. 
Harry, I dont think were going to be able to go back there. 
What dyou  ? 
As we Disapparated, Yaxley caug
ht hold of me and I couldnt 
get rid of him, he was too strong, and he was still holding on when 

we arrived at Grimmauld Place, and then  well, I think he must 
have seen the door, and thought we 
were stopping there, so he 
slackened his grip and I managed to
 shake him off and I brought us 
here instead! 
But then, wheres he? Hang on. . 
. . You dont mean hes at Grim-
mauld Place? He cant get in there? 
THE  THIEF  271  Her eyes sparkled with unshed tears as she nodded. 
Harry, I think he can. I  I forced him to let go with a Revul-
sion Jinx, but Id already taken 
him inside the Fidelius Charms 
protection. Since Dumbledore died, were Secret-Keepers, so Ive 
given him the secret, havent I? 
There was no pretending; Harry wa
s sure she was right. It was 
a serious blow. If Yaxley could no
w get inside the house, there was 
no way that they could return. 
Even now, he could be bringing 
other Death Eaters in there by 
Apparition. Gloomy and oppressive though the house was, it had been
 their one safe refuge: even, now 
that Kreacher was so much happier and friendlier, a kind of home. 
With a twinge of regret that ha
d nothing to do with food, Harry 
imagined the house-elf busying himself over the steak-and-kidney 
pie that Harry, Ron, and Hermione would never eat. 
Harry, Im sorry, Im so sorry! 

Dont be stupid, it wasnt your fault! If anything, it was 
mine. . . . Harry put his hand in his pocket
 and drew out Mad-Eyes eye. 
Hermione recoiled, looking horrified. 
Umbridge had stuck it to her office door, to spy on people. I couldnt 
leave it there . . . but thats how they knew there were intruders. Before Hermione could answer, Ron groaned and opened his 
eyes. He was still gray and hi
s face glistened with sweat. How dyou feel? He
rmione whispered. 
Lousy, croaked Ron, wincing as 
he felt his injured arm. Where 
are we? 
In the woods where they held 
the Quidditch World Cup, said Hermione. I wanted somewhere 
enclosed, undercover, and this 
was  CHAPTER  FOURTEEN  272   the first place you thought of,
 Harry finished for her, glanc-
ing around at the apparently desert
ed glade. He could not help re-
membering what had happened the 
last time they
 had Apparated 
to the first place Hermione had thought of  how Death Eaters 
had found them within minutes.
 Had it been Legilimency? Did 
Voldemort or his henchmen know
, even now, where Hermione had 
taken them? Dyou reckon we should move
 on? Ron asked Harry, and 
Harry could tell by the look on Rons face that he was thinking 
the same. I dunno. 
Ron still looked pale and clammy. He had made no attempt to sit 
up and it looked as though he wa
s too weak to do so. The prospect 
of moving him was daunting. 
Lets stay here for now, Harry said. 

Looking relieved, Hermione sprang to her feet. 
Where are you go
ing? asked Ron. 
If were staying, we should pu
t some protective enchantments 
around the place, she replied, and raising her wand, she began 
to walk in a wide circle arou
nd Harry and Ron, murmuring in-
cantations as she went. Harry saw 
little disturbances in the sur-
rounding air: It was as if Hermione
 had cast a heat haze upon their 
clearing. 
Salvio Hexia . . . Protego Totalum . . . Repello Muggletum . . . 
Muffliato
 . . . You could get out the 
tent, Harry. . . . Tent? 
In the bag! 
In the . . . of course, said Harry. 

He did not bother to grope inside
 it this time, but used another 
THE  THIEF  273  Summoning Charm. The tent emerged in a lumpy mass of canvas, 
rope, and poles. Harry recognized it
, partly because 
of the smell of 
cats, as the same tent in which th
ey had slept on the night of the 
Quidditch World Cup. 
I thought this belonged to that bloke Perkins at the Ministry? 
he asked, starting to di
sentangle the tent pegs. 
Apparently he didnt want it ba
ck, his lumbagos so bad, said 
Hermione, now performing compli
cated figure-of-eight movements 
with her wand, so Rons da
d said I could borrow it. 
Erecto
! she 
added, pointing her wand at the misshapen canvas, which in one 

fluid motion rose into the air and 
settled, fully constructed, onto the 
ground before Harry, out of whose startled hands a tent peg soared, 
to land with a final thud 
at the end of a guy rope. Cave Inimicum,
 Hermione finished with a skyward flourish. 
Thats as much as I can do. At the very least, we should know 

theyre coming, I cant guarante
e it will keep out Vol  
Dont say the name! Ron cut across her, his voice harsh. 
Harry and Hermione look
ed at each other. 
Im sorry, Ron said, moaning a littl
e as he raised himself to look 
at them, but it feels like a  a jinx or something. Cant we call him 

You-Know-Who  please? 
Dumbledore said fear of 
a name  began Harry. 
In case you hadnt noticed, ma
te, calling You-Know-Who by his 
name didnt do Dumbledore much 
good in the end, Ron snapped 
back. Just  just show You-Know
-Who some respect, will you? 
Respect
? Harry repeated, but Herm
ione shot him a warning 
look; apparently he was not to argue with Ron while the latter was 
in such a weakened condition. 
Harry and Hermione half carried, half dragged Ron through 
CHAPTER  FOURTEEN  274  the entrance of the tent. The interior was exactly as Harry remem-
bered it: a small flat, complete with bathroom and tiny kitchen. He 

shoved aside an old armchair and lowered Ron carefully onto the 
lower berth of a bunk bed. Even this very short journey had turned 
Ron whiter still, and once they 
had settled him on the mattress he 
closed his eyes again and 
did not speak for a while. Ill make some tea, said Hermio
ne breathlessly, pu
lling kettle and 
mugs from the depths of her bag 
and heading toward the kitchen. 
Harry found the hot drink as we
lcome as the firewhisky had 
been on the night that Mad-Eye ha
d died; it seemed to burn away 
a little of the fear fluttering in hi
s chest. After a minute or two, Ron 
broke the silence. 
What dyou reckon happen
ed to the Cattermoles? 
With any luck, theyll have got 
away, said Hermione, clutching 
her hot mug for comfort. As long as Mr. Cattermole had his wits 

about him, hell have transported 
Mrs. Cattermole by Side-Along-
Apparition and theyll be fleeing 
the country right now with their 
children. Thats what 
Harry told her to do. 
Blimey, I hope they escaped, 
said Ron, leaning back on his 
pillows. The tea seemed to be doing
 him good; a little of his color 
had returned. I didnt get the feeling Reg Cattermole was all that 
quick-witted, though, the way everyone was talking to me when I 
was him. God, I hope they made it. . . . If they both end up in Az-

kaban because of us . . . 
Harry looked over at Hermione 
and the question he had been 
about to ask  about whether Mrs.
 Cattermoles lack of a wand 
would prevent her Apparating alon
gside her husband  died in his 
throat. Hermione was watching Ro
n fret over the fate of the 
Cattermoles, and there was such tenderness in her expression that 
THE  THIEF  275  Harry felt almost as if he had su
rprised her in the act of kissing 
him. So, have you got it? Harry asked 
her, partly to remind her that 
he was there. 
Got  got what? she said with a little start. 
What did we just go through al
l that for? The locket! Wheres 
the locket? You got it
? shouted Ron, raising himse
lf a little higher on his 
pillows. No one tells me anythi
ng! Blimey, you could have men-
tioned it! 
Well, we were running for our lives from the Death Eaters, 
werent we? said Hermione. Here. 
And she pulled the locket out of the pocket of her robes and 
handed it to Ron. It was as large as a chick
ens egg. An ornate letter 
S, inlaid with 
many small green stones, glinted du
lly in the diffused light shining 
through the tents canvas roof. There isnt any chance someones destroyed it since Kreacher 
had it? asked Ron hopefully. I mean, are we sure its still a 
Horcrux? 
I think so, said Hermione, taking it back from him and looking 
at it closely. Thered be some si
gn of damage if it had been magi-
cally destroyed. 
She passed it to Harry, who turned it over in his fingers. The thing 
looked perfect, pristine. He re
membered the mangled remains of 
the diary, and how the stone in th
e Horcrux ring had been cracked 
open when Dumble
dore destroyed it. I reckon Kreachers right, said
 Harry. Were going to have to 
work out how to open this thin
g before we can destroy it. 
CHAPTER  FOURTEEN  276  Sudden awareness of what he was ho
lding, of what lived behind 
the little golden doors, 
hit Harry as he spoke.
 Even after all their 
efforts to find it, he felt a violent 
urge to fling the locket from him. 
Mastering himself again, he tried to
 prise the locket apart with his 
fingers, then attempted the ch
arm Hermione had used to open 
Reguluss bedroom door. Neither wo
rked. He handed the locket 
back to Ron and Hermione, each of
 whom did their best, but were 
no more successful at open
ing it than he had been. 
Can you feel it, though? Ron as
ked in a hushed voice, as he 
held it tight in his clenched fist. 
What dyou mean? 
Ron passed the Horcrux to Harry. 
After a moment or two, Harry 
thought he knew what Ron meant.
 Was it his own blood pulsing 
through his veins that he could feel, or was it something beating 
inside the locket, like a tiny metal heart? What are we going to do wi
th it? Hermione asked. Keep it safe till we work out 
how to destroy it, Harry replied, 
and, little though he wanted to, 
he hung the chain around his own 
neck, dropping the locket out of 
sight beneath his robes, where it 
rested against his chest beside 
the pouch Hagrid had given him. I think we should take it in turn
s to keep watch outside the tent, 
he added to Hermione, standing up and stretching. And well need 
to think about some food as well. Yo
u stay there, he added sharply, 
as Ron attempted to sit up and turned a nasty shade of green. 
With the Sneakoscope Hermione 
had given Harry for his birth-
day set carefully upon the table 
in the tent, Harry and Hermione 
spent the rest of the day sharing 
the role of lookout. However, 
the Sneakoscope remained
 silent and still upon its point all day, 
and whether because of the prot
ective enchantments and Muggle-
THE  THIEF  277  repelling charms Hermione had spread around them, or because 
people rarely ventured this way,
 their patch of wood remained de-
serted, apart from occasional bird
s and squirrels. Evening brought 
no change; Harry lit his 
wand as he swapped places with Hermione 
at ten oclock, and looked out upon a deserted scene, noting the bats 
fluttering high above him
 across the single patch 
of starry sky visible 
from their protected clearing. 
He felt hungry now, and a litt
le light-headed
. Hermione had 
not packed any food in her magica
l bag, as she had assumed that 
they would be returning to Grimmauld Place that night, so they 

had had nothing to eat except so
me wild mushrooms that Hermi-
one had collected from amongst the nearest trees and stewed in a 
billycan. After a couple of mout
hfuls Ron had pushed his portion 
away, looking queasy; Harry had only persevered so as not to hurt 
Hermiones feelings. 
The surrounding silence was br
oken by odd rustlings and what 
sounded like crackings of twigs: Harry thought that they were 
caused by animals rather than pe
ople, yet he kept his wand held 
tight at the ready. His insides, already uncomfortable due to their 
inadequate helping of rubbery mushrooms, tingled with unease. 
He had thought that he would feel 
elated if they managed to steal 
back the Horcrux, but somehow he did not; all he felt as he sat look-
ing out at the darkness, of which his
 wand lit only 
a tiny part, was 
worry about what would happen next. 
It was as though he had been 
hurtling toward this point for week
s, months, maybe even years, but 
now he had come to an abru
pt halt, run out of road. 
There were other Horcruxes out there somewhere, but he did not 
have the faintest idea where they
 could be. He did not even know 
what all of them were. Meanwhile 
he was at a loss to know how to 
CHAPTER  FOURTEEN  278  destroy the only one that they 
had found, the Horcrux that cur-
rently lay against the bare flesh of his chest. Curiously, it had not 

taken heat from his body, but lay so
 cold against his skin it might 
just have emerged from icy water. From time to time Harry thought, 
or perhaps imagined, that he could feel the tiny heartbeat ticking 
irregularly alongside his own. 
Nameless forebodings crept upon him as he sat there in the dark: 
He tried to resist them, push them away, yet they came at him relent-
lessly. Neither can live while the other survives.
 Ron and Hermione, 
now talking softly behind him in th
e tent, could walk away if they 
wanted to: He could not. And it 
seemed to Harry as he sat there 
trying to master his own fear an
d exhaustion, that the Horcrux 
against his chest was ticking away
 the time he had left. . . . 
Stupid idea, he told himself, 
dont think that.
 . . . His scar was starting to prickle again. He was afraid that he was 
making it happen by ha
ving these thoughts, and tried to direct 
them into another channel. He th
ought of poor Kreacher, who had 
expected them home and had rece
ived Yaxley instead. Would the 
elf keep silent or woul
d he tell the Death Eate
r everything he knew? 
Harry wanted to believe that Krea
cher had changed 
toward him in 
the past month, that he would be
 loyal now, but who knew what 
would happen? What if the Death Ea
ters tortured the elf? Sick im-
ages swarmed into Harrys head and 
he tried to push these away too, 
for there was nothing he could do
 for Kreacher: He and Hermione 
had already decided against trying to summon him; what if some-
one from the Ministry came too? They could not count on elfish 
Apparition being free from the same
 flaw that had taken Yaxley to 
Grimmauld Place on the hem of Hermiones sleeve. 
Harrys scar was burning now. He thought that there was so much 
THE  THIEF  279  they did not know: Lupin had been right about magic they had 
never encountered or imagined. Why hadnt Dumbledore explained 

more? Had he thought that there wo
uld be time; that he would live 
for years, for centuries perhaps, li
ke his friend Nicolas Flamel? If 
so, he had been wrong. . . . Snape 
had seen to that. . . . Snape, the 
sleeping snake, who had struck at the top of the tower . . . 
And Dumbledore had fallen . . . fallen . . . Give it to me, Gregorovitch. Harrys voice was high, clear, an
d cold, his wand held in front 
of him by a long-fingered white 
hand. The man at whom he was 
pointing was suspended upside down
 in midair, though there were 
no ropes holding him; he swung th
ere, invisibly and eerily bound, 
his limbs wrapped about him, his 
terrified face, on a level with 
Harrys, ruddy due to the blood that
 had rushed to his head. He 
had pure-white hair and a thick, bu
shy beard: a trussed-up Father 
Christmas. 
I have it not, I have it no more! It was, many years ago, stolen 
from me! 
Do not lie to Lord Voldemort, Gregorovitch. He knows. . . . He 
always knows. The hanging mans pupils were wi
de, dilated with fear, and they 
seemed to swell, bigger and bigger until their blackness swallowed 
Harry whole  
And now Harry was hurrying along a da
rk corridor in stout little 
Gregorovitchs wake as he held a 
lantern aloft: Gregorovitch burst 
into the room at the end of the 
passage and his lantern illuminated 
what looked like a workshop; wo
od shavings and gold gleamed 
in the swinging pool of light, 
and there on the window ledge sat 
perched, like a giant bird, a yo
ung man with golden hair. In the 
CHAPTER  FOURTEEN  280  split second that the lanterns light illuminated him, Harry saw the 
delight upon his handsome face, then the intruder shot a Stunning 

Spell from his wand and jumped ne
atly backward out of the window 
with a crow of laughter. And Harry was hurtling back out of
 those wide, tunnellike pupils 
and Gregorovitchs face was stricken with terror. 
Who was the thief, Gregorovitch
? said the high cold voice. I do not know, I never knew, a young man 
 no  please 
 PLEASE! A scream that went on and on and then a burst of green light  

Harry
! He opened his eyes, panting, hi
s forehead throbbing. He had 
passed out against the side of the 
tent, had slid sideways down the 
canvas, and was sprawled on the ground. He looked up at Hermi-
one, whose bushy hair obscured the 
tiny patch of sky visible through 
the dark branches high above them. 
Dream, he said, sitting up qu
ickly and attempting to meet 
Hermiones glower with a look of innocence. Mustve dozed off, 
sorry. 
I know it was your scar! I can tell by the look on your face! You 
were looking into Vol  
Dont say his name! came Ron
s angry voice from the depths 
of the tent. 
Fine,
 retorted Hermione. 
You-Know-Whos
 mind, then! 
I didnt mean it to happen! 
Harry said. It was a dream! Can 
you control what you drea
m about, Hermione? 
If you just learned to
 apply Occlumency  
But Harry was not interested in bein
g told off; he wanted to dis-
cuss what he had just seen. 
THE  THIEF  281  Hes found Gregorovitch, Herm
ione, and I think hes killed 
him, but before he killed him he 
read Gregorovitchs mind and I 
saw  
I think Id better take over the watch if youre so tired youre 
falling asleep, said Hermione coldly. 
I can finish the watch! 
No, youre obviously exhausted. Go and lie down. She dropped down in the mouth of
 the tent, looking stubborn. 
Angry, but wishing to avoid a ro
w, Harry ducked back inside. 
Rons still-pale face was poking
 out from the lower bunk; Harry 
climbed into the one above him, lay 
down, and looked up at the dark 
canvas ceiling. After several mome
nts, Ron spoke in a voice so low 
that it would not carry to Hermione, huddled in the entrance. 
Whats You-Know
-Who doing? 
Harry screwed up his eyes in the effort to remember every detail, 
then whispered into the darkness. 
He found Gregorovitch. He had him tied up, he was torturing 
him. 
Hows Gregorovitch supposed to 
make him a new wand if hes 
tied up? 
I dunno. . . . Its
 weird, isnt it? 
Harry closed his eyes, thinking of all he had seen and heard. The 
more he recalled, the less sense it made. . . . Voldemort had said 

nothing about Harrys wand, nothin
g about the twin cores, noth-
ing about Gregorovitch 
making a new and more powerful wand to 
beat Harrys. . . . He wanted something from Gregor
ovitch, Harry said, eyes still 
closed tight. He asked him to hand
 it over, but Gregorovitch said 
it had been stolen from him . 
. . and then . . . then . . . CHAPTER  FOURTEEN  282  He remembered how he, as Vold
emort, had seemed to hurtle 
through Gregorovitchs eyes
, into his memories. . . . 
He read Gregorovitchs mind, an
d I saw this young bloke perched 
on a windowsill, and he fired a cu
rse at Gregorovitch and jumped 
out of sight. He stole it, he stol
e whatever You-Know-Whos after. 
And I . . . I think Ive seen him somewhere. . . . 
Harry wished he could have an
other glimpse of the laughing 
boys face. The theft had happened many years ago, according to 
Gregorovitch. Why did the young thief look familiar? 
The noises of the surrounding woods were muffled inside the 
tent; all Harry could hear was Ron
s breathing. After a while, Ron 
whispered, Couldnt you see 
what the thief was holding? 
No . . . it mustve been something small. 
Harry? The wooden slats of Rons bunk creaked as he repositioned him-
self in bed. 
Harry, you dont reckon You-Know-Whos after something else 
to turn into a Horcrux? 
I dont know, said Harry slowly
. Maybe. But wouldnt it be 
dangerous for him to make another one? Didnt Hermione say he 

had pushed his soul to
 the limit already? 
Yeah, but maybe he doesnt know that. 
Yeah . . . maybe, said Harry. 
He had been sure that Voldemort had been looking for a way 
around the problem of the twin co
res, sure that Voldemort sought 
a solution from the old wandmake
r . . . and yet he had killed him, 
apparently without asking him a 
single question 
about wandlore. 
What was Voldemort trying to fi
nd? Why, with the Ministry of 
Magic and the Wizarding world at his feet, was he far away, intent 
THE  THIEF  283  on the pursuit of an object that
 Gregorovitch had once owned, and 
which had been stolen by the unknown thief? 
Harry could still see the blond-haired youths face; it was merry, 
wild; there was a Fred and George-i
sh air of triumphant trickery 
about him. He had soared from th
e windowsill like a bird, and 
Harry had seen him before, but he
 could not thin
k where. . . . With Gregorovitch de
ad, it was the merry-faced thief who was 
in danger now, and it was on him 
that Harrys thoughts dwelled, as 
Rons snores began to rumble from 
the lower bunk and as he himself 
drifted slowly into sleep once more. C H A P T E R  F I F T E E N   284  THE GOBLIN
S REVENGE 
  arly next morning, before the ot
her two were awake, Harry left 
the tent to search the woods ar
ound them for the oldest, most 
gnarled, and resilient-looking tree 
he could find. There in its shadow 
he buried Mad-Eye Moodys eye an
d marked the spot by gouging a 
small cross in the bark with his
 wand. It was not much, but Harry 
felt that Mad-Eye would have much 
preferred this to being stuck on 
Dolores Umbridges door. Then he retu
rned to the tent to wait for the 
others to wake, and discuss what they were going to do next. 
Harry and Hermione felt that it wa
s best not to stay anywhere 
too long, and Ron agreed, with the so
le proviso that their next move 
took them within reach of a bacon sandwich. Hermione therefore re-
moved the enchantments she had placed around the clearing, while 
Harry and Ron obliterated all the marks and impressions on the 
ground that might show they had 
camped there. Then they Disap-
parated to the outskirts of a small market town. 
Once they had pitched the tent in the shelter of a small copse of 
E THE  GOBLINS  REVENGE  285  trees and surrounded it with freshly cast defensive enchantments, 
Harry ventured out under the Invisi
bility Cloak to find sustenance. 
This, however, did not go as pl
anned. He had barely entered the 
town when an unnatural chill,
 a descending mist, and a sudden 
darkening of the skies made him freeze where he stood. But you can make a brilliant Patronus! protested Ron, when 
Harry arrived back at the tent em
pty-handed, out of breath, and 
mouthing the single word, 
dementors. I couldnt . . . make one, he pa
nted, clutching the stitch in his 
side. Wouldnt . . . come. 
Their expressions of constern
ation and disappointment made 
Harry feel ashamed. It had been a 
nightmarish experience, seeing the dementors gliding out of the mist
 in the distance and realizing, 
as the paralyzing cold choked his lungs and a distant screaming 
filled his ears, that he was not going to be able to protect himself. 

It had taken all Harrys 
willpower to uproot himself from the spot 
and run, leaving the eyeless dementors to glide amongst the Muggles 
who might not be able to see them, but would assuredly feel the 
despair they cast wherever they went. 
So we still havent got any food. 
Shut up, Ron, snapped Herm
ione. Harry, what happened? 
Why do you think you couldnt ma
ke your Patronus? You managed 
perfectly yesterday! 
I dont know. He sat low in one of Perkinss ol
d armchairs, feeling more humili-
ated by the moment. He was afra
id that something had gone wrong 
inside him. Yesterday seemed a long time ago: Today he might have 
been thirteen years old again, the 
only one who collapsed on the 
Hogwarts Express. 
CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  286  Ron kicked a chair leg. 
What? he snarled at Hermione. I
m starving! All Ive had since 
I bled half to death is 
a couple of toadstools! 
You go and fight your way through the dementors, then, said 
Harry, stung. I would, but my arms in a slin
g, in case you hadnt noticed! Thats convenient. 

And whats that supposed to  ? 
Of course! cried Hermione, clap
ping a hand to her forehead 
and startling both of them into silence. Harry, give me the locket! 

Come on, she said impatiently, cl
icking her fingers at him when he 
did not react, the Horcrux, Harry, youre still wearing it! 
She held out her hands, and Harr
y lifted the golden chain over 
his head. The moment it parted co
ntact with Harrys skin he felt 
free and oddly light. He had not ev
en realized that he was clammy 
or that there was a heavy weight pr
essing on his stomach until both 
sensations lifted. 
Better? asked Hermione. 
Yeah, loads better! 
Harry, she said, crouching down in front of him and using the 
kind of voice he associated with 
visiting the very sick, you dont 
think youve been 
possessed, do you? 
What? No! he said defensively.
 I remember everything weve 
done while Ive been wearing it. I 
wouldnt know what Id done if 
Id been possessed, would I? Ginny 
told me there were times when 
she couldnt remember anything. 
Hmm, said Hermione, looking do
wn at the heavy gold locket. 
Well, maybe we ought not to wear 
it. We can just keep it in the 
tent. 
THE  GOBLINS  REVENGE  287  We are not leaving that Horcrux lying around, Harry stated 
firmly. If we lose it, if it gets stolen  
Oh, all right, all right, said He
rmione, and she placed it around 
her own neck and tucked it out of 
sight down the front of her shirt. 
But well take turns wearing it, so nobody keeps it on too long. 
Great, said Ron irritably, and 
now weve sorted that out, can 
we please get some food? 
Fine, but well go somewhere else 
to find it, said Hermione with 
half a glance at Harry. Theres no point staying where we know 
dementors are swooping around. In the end they settled down for th
e night in a far-flung field be-
longing to a lonely farm, from w
hich they had managed to obtain 
eggs and bread. 
Its not stealing, is it? asked 
Hermione in a troubled voice, as 
they devoured scrambled 
eggs on toast. Not if I left some money 
under the chicken coop? 
Ron rolled his eyes and said, wi
th his cheeks bulging, Er-my-
nee, oo worry 
oo much. Elax! And, indeed, it was much easier
 to relax when they were com-
fortably well fed: The argument 
about the dementors was forgotten 
in laughter that night, and Harry fe
lt cheerful, even hopeful, as he 
took the first of the 
three night watches. 
This was their first encounter with
 the fact that a full stomach 
meant good spirits; an empty on
e, bickering and gloom. Harry 
was least surprised by this, becaus
e he had suffered periods of near 
starvation at the Dursleys. Herm
ione bore up reasonably well on 
those nights when they managed to 
scavenge nothing but berries or 
stale biscuits, her temper perhaps a little shorter than usual and her 

silences rather dour. Ron, however, had always been used to three 
CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  288  delicious meals a day, courtesy of his mother or of the Hogwarts 
house-elves, and hunger made him 
both unreasonable and irascible. 
Whenever lack of food coincided wi
th Rons turn to wear the Hor-
crux, he became downright unpleasant. 
So where next? was his constant 
refrain. He did not seem to 
have any ideas himself, but expected Harry and Hermione to come 
up with plans while he sat and br
ooded over the low food supplies. 
Accordingly Harry and Hermione sp
ent fruitless hours trying to 
decide where they might find the 
other Horcruxes, and how to de-
stroy the one they had already go
t, their conversations becoming 
increasingly repetitive as they had no new information. As Dumbledore had told Harry that
 he believed Voldemort had 
hidden the Horcruxes in places im
portant to him, they kept recit-
ing, in a sort of dreary litany, th
ose locations they knew that Volde-
mort had lived or visited. The 
orphanage where he had been born 
and raised; Hogwarts, where he had been educated; Borgin and 
Burkes, where he had worked afte
r completing school; then Alba-
nia, where he had spent his years 
of exile: These formed the basis 
of their speculations. Yeah, lets go to Albania. Should
nt take more than an afternoon 
to search an entire country, said Ron sarcastically. 
There cant be anything there. Hed already made five of his 
Horcruxes before he went into 
exile, and Dumbledore was certain 
the snake is the sixth, said He
rmione. We know the snakes not 
in Albania, its usually with Vol  
Didnt I ask you to stop saying that
? Fine! The snake is usually with 
You-Know-Who  happy? 
Not particularly. 

I cant see him hiding anything at Borgin and Burkes, said 
THE  GOBLINS  REVENGE  289  Harry, who had made this point many times before, but said it again 
simply to break the nasty silence. 
Borgin and Burke were experts at 
Dark objects, they wouldve recognized a Horcrux straightaway. 
Ron yawned pointedly. Repressing
 a strong urge to throw some-
thing at him, Harry plowed on, I still reckon he might have hidden something at Hogwarts. 
Hermione sighed. 

But Dumbledore would have found it, Harry! 
Harry repeated the argument he ke
pt bringing out in favor of 
this theory. 
Dumbledore said in front of me that he never assumed he knew 
all of Hogwartss secrets. Im telling you, if there was one place 
Vol  
Oi! YOU-KNOW-WHO, then! Harry shouted, goaded past en-
durance. If there was one place th
at was really important to You-
Know-Who, it was Hogwarts! 
Oh, come on, scoffed Ron. His 
school
? Yeah, his school! It was his first 
real home, the plac
e that meant he 
was special; it meant ev
erything to him, and ev
en after he left  
This is You-Know-Who were ta
lking about, right? Not you? 
inquired Ron. He was tugging at the chain of the Horcrux around 
his neck: Harry was visited by a de
sire to seize it
 and throttle him. You told us that You-Know-Who asked Dumbledore to give him 
a job after he left, said Hermione. 
Thats right, said Harry. 
And Dumbledore thought he only 
wanted to come back to try 
and find something, probably an
other founders object, to make 
into another Horcrux? 
CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  290  Yeah, said Harry. 
But he didnt get the job, did he? said Hermione. So he never 
got the chance to find a founders object there and hide it in the 
school! 
Okay, then, said Harry, de
feated. Forget Hogwarts. 
Without any other leads, they traveled into London and, hidden 
beneath the Invisibility Cloak, se
arched for the orphanage in which 
Voldemort had been raised. Hermio
ne stole into a library and dis-
covered from their records that th
e place had been demolished many 
years before. They visited its site 
and found a tower block of offices. We could try digging in the fo
undations? Hermione suggested 
halfheartedly. He wouldnt have hidden a Horc
rux here, Harry said. He had 
known it all along: The orphanag
e had been the place Voldemort 
had been determined to escape; he
 would never have hidden a part 
of his soul there. Dumbledore 
had shown Harry that Voldemort 
sought grandeur or mystique in hi
s hiding places; this dismal gray 
corner of London was as far re
moved as you could imagine from 
Hogwarts or the Ministry or a buil
ding like Gringotts, the Wizard-
ing bank, with its golden doors and marble floors. Even without any new ideas, th
ey continued to move through 
the countryside, pitching the tent 
in a different place each night for 
security. Every morning they made 
sure that they had removed all 
clues to their presence, then set of
f to find another lonely and se-
cluded spot, traveling by Appariti
on to more woods, to the shadowy 
crevices of cliffs, to purple m
oors, gorse-covere
d mountainsides, and once a sheltered and pebbly cove
. Every twelve hours or so they 
passed the Horcrux between them as though they were playing some 

perverse, slow-motion game of pass-the-parcel, where they dreaded 
THE  GOBLINS  REVENGE  291  the music stopping because the rewa
rd was twelve hours of increased 
fear and anxiety. 
Harrys scar kept prickling. It ha
ppened most often, he noticed, 
when he was wearing the Horcrux. Sometimes he could not stop 
himself reacting to the pain. 
What? What did you see? dema
nded Ron, whenever he noticed 
Harry wince. 
A face, muttered Harry, every time. The same face. The thief 
who stole from Gregorovitch. And Ron would turn away, making
 no effort to hide his disap-
pointment. Harry knew that Ron was hoping to hear news of his 
family or of the rest of the Order of the Phoenix, but after all, he, 
Harry, was not a television aerial; he could only see what Voldemort was thinking at the time, not tune in to whatever took his fancy. Ap-
parently Voldemort was dwelling endlessly on the unknown youth 

with the gleeful face, whose name and whereabouts, Harry felt sure, 
Voldemort knew no better than he
 did. As Harrys scar continued 
to burn and the merry, 
blond-haired boy swam tantalizingly in his 
memory, he learned to suppress any 
sign of pain or discomfort, for 
the other two showed nothing but im
patience at the mention of the 
thief. He could not entirely blam
e them, when they were so desper-
ate for a lead on the Horcruxes. 
As the days stretched into week
s, Harry began to suspect that 
Ron and Hermione were having conversations without, and about, 
him. Several times they stopped 
talking abruptly when Harry en-
tered the tent, and twice he came 
accidentally upon them, huddled 
a little distance away, heads together and talking fast; both times 
they fell silent when they realiz
ed he was approaching them and 
hastened to appear busy collecting wood or water. CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  292  Harry could not help 
wondering whether they had only agreed 
to come on what now felt like a 
pointless and rambling journey be-
cause they thought he 
had some secret plan that they would learn 
in due course. Ron was making no
 effort to hide his bad mood, 
and Harry was starting to fear th
at Hermione too was disappointed 
by his poor leadership. In desperat
ion he tried to think of further 
Horcrux locations, but the only on
e that continued to occur to him 
was Hogwarts, and as neither of the 
others thought this at all likely, 
he stopped suggesting it. Autumn rolled over the countryside as they moved through it: 
They were now pitching the tent on mulches of fallen leaves. Natural 
mists joined those cast by the de
mentors; wind and rain added to 
their troubles. The fact that He
rmione was getting 
better at iden-
tifying edible fungi could not a
ltogether compensate for their con-
tinuing isolation, the lack of other peoples company, or their total 

ignorance of what was going on in the war against Voldemort. 
My mother, said Ron one night, 
as they sat in the tent on a 
riverbank in Wales, can make good food appear out of thin air. He prodded moodily at the lumps 
of charred gray fish on his 
plate. Harry glanced automatically 
at Rons neck and saw, as he 
had expected, the golden chain of 
the Horcrux glinting there. He 
managed to fight down the impulse to
 swear at Ron, whose attitude 
would, he knew, improve slightly 
when the time came to take off 
the locket. Your mother cant produce food ou
t of thin air, said Hermione. 
No one can. Food is the first of 
the five Principal Exceptions to 
Gamps Law of Elemental Transfigur  
Oh, speak English, ca
nt you? Ron said, prising a fish bone out 
from between his teeth. 
THE  GOBLINS  REVENGE  293  Its impossible to make good fo
od out of nothing! You can Sum-
mon it if you know where it is, yo
u can transform it, you can increase the quantity if youve already got some  Well, dont bother increasing this, its disgusting, said Ron. 
Harry caught the fish and I did my best with it! I notice Im al-
ways the one who ends up sort
ing out the food
, because Im a 
girl, 
I suppose! No, its because youre supposed 
to be the best at magic! shot 
back Ron. Hermione jumped up and bits of 
roast pike slid off her tin plate 
onto the floor. You can do the cooking tomorrow, Ron, 
you can find the ingre-
dients and try and charm them in
to something worth eating, and 
Ill sit here and pull faces and moan and you can see how you  
Shut up! said Harry, leaping 
to his feet and holding up both 
hands. Shut up 
now! Hermione looked outraged. 
How can you side with him, he hardly ever does the cook  
Hermione, be quiet, I can hear someone! 
He was listening hard
, his hands still rais
ed, warning them not 
to talk. Then, over the rush and gu
sh of the dark river beside them, 
he heard voices again. He looked 
around at the Sneakoscope. It was 
not moving. 
You cast the Muffliato charm over us, right? he whispered to 
Hermione. 
I did everything, she whispered back, Muffliato, Muggle-
Repelling and Disillusionment Charms
, all of it. They shouldnt be 
able to hear or see us, whoever they are. 
Heavy scuffing and scraping nois
es, plus the sound of dislodged 
CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  294  stones and twigs, told them that
 several people were clambering 
down the steep, wooded slope that 
descended to the narrow bank 
where they had pitched the tent. They drew their wands, waiting. 
The enchantments they had cast arou
nd themselves ought to be suf-
ficient, in the near total darkness,
 to shield them 
from the notice 
of Muggles and normal witches an
d wizards. If these were Death 
Eaters, then perhaps their defenses we
re about to be tested by Dark 
Magic for the first time. 
The voices became louder but no 
more intelligible as the group of 
men reached the bank. Harry estimated that their owners were fewer 

than twenty feet away, but the cascading river made it impossible to 
tell for sure. Hermione snatched up the beaded bag and started to 
rummage; after a moment she drew out three Extendable Ears and 
threw one each to Harry and Ron, 
who hastily inserted the ends of 
the flesh-colored strings into thei
r ears and fed th
e other ends out 
of the tent entrance. 
Within seconds Harry heard a weary male voice. 
There ought to be a few salmon in
 here, or dyou reckon its too 
early in the season? 
Accio Salmon
! There were several distinct splash
es and then the slapping sounds 
of fish against flesh. Somebody gr
unted appreciatively. Harry pressed 
the Extendable Ear deeper into his
 own: Over the murmur of the 
river he could make out more voices, but they were not speaking 

English or any human language he 
had ever heard. It was a rough 
and unmelodious tongue, a string of
 rattling, guttural noises, and 
there seemed to be two speakers, o
ne with a slightly lower, slower 
voice than the other. 
A fire danced into life on the ot
her side of the ca
nvas; large shad-ows passed between tent and flames. 
The delicious smell of baking 
THE  GOBLINS  REVENGE  295  salmon wafted tantalizingly in th
eir direction. Then came the clink-
ing of cutlery on plates, an
d the first man spoke again. 
Here, Griphook, Gornuk. 
Goblins
! Hermione mouthed at Harry, who nodded. Thank you, said the gobl
ins together in English. 
So, you three have been on th
e run how long? asked a new, 
mellow, and pleasant vo
ice; it was vaguely familiar to Harry, who 
pictured a round-bellied
, cheerful-faced man. 
Six weeks . . . seven . . . I forget
, said the tired man. Met up 
with Griphook in the first couple 
of days and joined forces with 
Gornuk not long after. Nice to have a bit of company. There was 
a pause, while knives scraped plat
es and tin mugs were picked up 
and replaced on the ground. What made you leave, Ted? contin-
ued the man. Knew they were coming for me, 
replied mellow-voiced Ted, and 
Harry suddenly knew who he was: 
Tonkss father. Heard Death 
Eaters were in the area last week
 and decided Id be
tter run for it. 
Refused to register as a Muggle-born
 on principle, see, so I knew 
it was a matter of time, knew Id ha
ve to leave in the end. My wife 
should be okay, shes pure-blood.
 And then I met Dean here, what, 
a few days ago, son? Yeah, said another voice, and Ha
rry, Ron, and Hermione stared 
at each other, silent but beside themselves with excitement, sure they 

recognized the voice of Dean Thomas, their fellow Gryffindor. 
Muggle-born, eh? asked the first man. Not sure, said Dean. My dad left my mum when I was a kid. 
Ive got no proof he was a wizard, though. 
There was silence for a while, exce
pt for the sounds of munching; 
then Ted spoke again. CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  296  Ive got to say, Dirk, Im surprise
d to run into you. Pleased, but 
surprised. Word was youd been caught. 
I was, said Dirk. I was ha
lfway to Azkaban when I made a 
break for it, Stunned Dawlish, and nicked his broom. It was easier 
than youd think; I dont reckon hes quite right at the moment. 
Might be Confunded. If so, Id like to shake the hand of the witch 
or wizard who did it, probably saved my life. There was another pause in which 
the fire crackled and the river 
rushed on. Then Ted said, And 
where do you two fit in? I, er, 
had the impression the goblins 
were for You-Know-Who, on the 
whole. 
You had a false impression, said the higher-voiced of the goblins. We take no sides. This is a wizards war. 
How come youre in hiding, then? 
I deemed it prudent, said th
e deeper-voiced goblin. Having refused what I considered an impe
rtinent request, I could see that 
my personal safety was in jeopardy. 
What did they ask yo
u to do? asked Ted. Duties ill-befitting the dignity of my race, replied the goblin, his 
voice rougher and less human as he said it. I am not a house-elf. 
What about you, Griphook? 
Similar reasons, said the higher-
voiced goblin. Gringotts is no 
longer under the sole control of 
my race. I recognize no Wizarding 
master. 
He added something under his 
breath in Gobb
ledegook, and Gornuk laughed. 
Whats the joke? asked Dean. 
He said, replied Dirk, that th
ere are things wizards dont rec-
ognize, either. 
THE  GOBLINS  REVENGE  297  There was a short pause. 
I dont get it, said Dean. 

I had my small revenge before I le
ft, said Griphook in English. 
Good man  goblin, I should say, amended Ted hastily. 
Didnt manage to lock
 a Death Eater up in one of the old high-
security vaults, I suppose? 
If I had, the sword would not ha
ve helped him break out, re-
plied Griphook. Gornuk laughed 
again and even Dirk gave a dry 
chuckle. Dean and I are still missing 
something here, said Ted. 
So is Severus Snape, though he does not know it, said Griphook, 
and the two goblins roared with malicious laughter. Inside the tent 
Harrys breathing was shallow with excitement: He and Hermione 
stared at each other, listening as hard as they could. 
Didnt you hear about that, Ted? asked Dirk. About the 
kids who tried to steal Gryffindors sword out of Snapes office at 
Hogwarts? 
An electric current seemed to co
urse through Harry, jangling his 
every nerve as he stood rooted to the spot. Never heard a word, sa
id Ted. Not in the 
Prophet,
 was it? 
Hardly, chortled Dirk. Griphoo
k here told me, he heard about 
it from Bill Weasley who works for the bank. One of the kids who 
tried to take the sword was Bills younger sister. 
Harry glanced toward Hermione and Ron, both of whom were 
clutching the Extendable Ears
 as tightly as lifelines. She and a couple of friends got 
into Snapes office and smashed 
open the glass case where he was apparently keeping the sword. 
Snape caught them as they were
 trying to smuggle it down the 
staircase. 
CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  298  Ah, God bless em, said Ted.
 What did they think, that 
theyd be able to use the swor
d on You-Know-Who? Or on Snape 
himself? 
Well, whatever they thought they 
were going to do with it, Snape 
decided the sword wasnt safe where 
it was, said Dirk. Couple of 
days later, once hed got the sa
y-so from You-Kn
ow-Who, I imagine, he sent it down to London to be kept in Gringotts instead. 
The goblins started to laugh again. 
Im still not seeing the joke, said Ted. 
Its a fake, rasped Griphook. 

The sword of Gryffindor! Oh yes. It is a copy  an excell
ent copy, it is true  but it was 
Wizard-made. The original was forg
ed centuries ago by goblins and 
had certain properties only goblin-made armor possesses. Wherever 
the genuine sword of Gryffindor is, 
it is not in a vault at Gringotts 
bank. I see, said Ted. And I take 
it you didnt bo
ther telling the 
Death Eaters this? 
I saw no reason to trouble th
em with the information, said 
Griphook smugly, and now Ted an
d Dean joined in Gornuk and 
Dirks laughter. Inside the tent, Harry closed hi
s eyes, willing someone to ask 
the question he needed answered, 
and after a minute that seemed 
ten, Dean obliged; he was (Harry remembered with a jolt) an ex-
boyfriend of Ginnys too. 
What happened to Ginny and the 
others? The ones who tried to 
steal it? Oh, they were punished, and cruelly, said Griphook indif-
ferently. 
THE  GOBLINS  REVENGE  299  Theyre okay, though? asked Ted 
quickly. I mean, the Weasleys 
dont need any more of thei
r kids injured, do they? They suffered no serious injury, as far as I am aware, said 
Griphook. 
Lucky for them, said Ted. Wit
h Snapes track record I suppose 
we should just be glad theyre still alive. 
You believe that story, then, 
do you, Ted? asked Dirk. You 
believe Snape killed Dumbledore? 
Course I do, said Ted. Youre not going to sit there and tell 
me you think Potter had 
anything to do with it? 
Hard to know what to believe these days, muttered Dirk. 
I know Harry Potter, said Dean. And I reckon hes the real 
thing  the Chosen One, or whatever you want to call it. 
Yeah, theres a lot would like to believe hes that, son, said Dirk, 
me included. But where is he? Run 
for it, by the looks of things. 
Youd think, if he knew anything
 we dont, or had anything special 
going for him, hed be out there 
now fighting, rallying resistance, 
instead of hiding. And you know, the 
Prophet made a pretty good 
case against him  
The 
Prophet
? scoffed Ted. You deserve to be lied to if youre still 
reading that muck, Dirk. Yo
u want the facts, try the Quibbler.
 There was a sudden explosion of 
choking and retching, plus a 
good deal of thumping; by the so
und of it, Dirk had swallowed a 
fish bone. At last he spluttered, The 
Quibbler
? That lunatic rag of 
Xeno Lovegoods? Its not so lunatic these days, sa
id Ted. You want to give it 
a look. Xeno is printi
ng all the stuff the 
Prophets
 ignoring, not 
a single mention of Crumple-Horned
 Snorkacks in the last issue. 
How long theyll let him get away 
with it, mind, I dont know. But 
CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  300  Xeno says, front page of every issu
e, that any wizard whos against 
You-Know-Who ought to make helping Harry Potter their number-

one priority. Hard to help a boy whos vanish
ed off the face of the earth, 
said Dirk. 
Listen, the fact that
 they havent caught him yets one hell of 
an achievement, said Ted. Id take
 tips from him gladly; its what 
were trying to do, stay free, isnt it? 
Yeah, well, youve got a point th
ere, said Dirk heavily. With 
the whole of the Ministry and all 
their informers looking for him Id have expected him to be caught by now. Mind, whos to say they 
havent already caught and killed
 him without publicizing it? 
Ah, dont say that, Dirk, murmured Ted. 
There was a long pause filled with more clattering of knives and 
forks. When they spoke again it was to discuss whether they ought 

to sleep on the bank or retreat ba
ck up the wooded slope. Deciding 
the trees would give better cover, th
ey extinguished their fire, then 
clambered back up the incline, their voices fading away. 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione reeled 
in the Extendable Ears. Harry, 
who had found the need to remain 
silent increasingly difficult the 
longer they eavesdropped, now fo
und himself unable to say more 
than, Ginny  the sword  I know! said Hermione. 

She lunged for the tiny beaded ba
g, this time sinking her arm in 
it right up to the armpit. Here . . . we . . . are . . . she 
said between gritted teeth, and she 
pulled at something that was evidently in the depths of the bag. 
Slowly the edge of an ornate pict
ure frame came into sight. Harry 
hurried to help her. As they lift
ed the empty portrait of Phineas 
THE  GOBLINS  REVENGE  301  Nigellus free of Hermiones bag, she kept her wand pointing at it, 
ready to cast a spell at any moment. 
If somebody swapped the real sw
ord for the fake while it was 
in Dumbledores office, she panted
, as they propped the painting 
against the side of the tent, P
hineas Nigellus would have seen it 
happen, he hangs right beside the case! 
Unless he was asleep, said Harr
y, but he still held his breath 
as Hermione knelt down in fron
t of the empty canvas, her wand 
directed at its center, clea
red her throat, then said: 
Er  Phineas? P
hineas Nigellus? 
Nothing happened. 
Phineas Nigellus? said Hermione ag
ain. Professor Black? Please 
could we talk to you? Please? 
Please always helps, said a co
ld, snide voice, and Phineas Ni-
gellus slid into his portrait
. At once, Hermione cried: 
Obscuro! A black blindfold appeared over 
Phineas Nigelluss clever, dark 
eyes, causing him to bump into 
the frame and shriek with pain. 
What  how dare  
what are you  ? 
Im very sorry, Professor Black, 
said Hermione, but its a nec-
essary precaution! 
Remove this foul addition at on
ce! Remove it, I say! You are ru-
ining a great work of art! Where am I? What is going on? 
Never mind where we are, said Harry, and Phineas Nigellus 
froze, abandoning his attempts to peel off th
e painted blindfold. Can that possibly be the voic
e of the elusive Mr. Potter? 
Maybe, said Harry, knowing that
 this would keep Phineas Ni-
gelluss interest. Weve got a couple
 of questions to ask you  about 
the sword of Gryffindor. 
CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  302  Ah, said Phineas Nigellus, now turning his head this way and 
that in an effort to 
catch sight of Harry, yes
. That silly girl acted 
most unwisely there  
Shut up about my sister, said
 Ron roughly. Phineas Nigellus 
raised supercilious eyebrows. 
Who else is here? he asked, turning his head from side to side. 
Your tone displeases 
me! The girl and her friends were foolhardy 
in the extreme. Thieving from the headmaster! 
They werent thieving, said Ha
rry. That sword isnt Snapes. 
It belongs to Professor Snapes 
school, said Phineas Nigellus. 
Exactly what claim did the Weasley girl have upon it? She deserved 
her punishment, as did the idio
t Longbottom and the Lovegood 
oddity! Neville is not an idiot and 
Luna is not an oddity! said 
Hermione. 
Where am I? repeated Phineas Ni
gellus, starting to wrestle with the blindfold again. Where have
 you brought me? Why have you 
removed me from the house of my forebears? 
Never mind that! How did Snap
e punish Ginny, Neville, and 
Luna? asked Ha
rry urgently. Professor
 Snape sent them into the Forbidden Forest, to do some 
work for the oaf, Hagrid. 
Hagrids not an oaf! said Hermione shrilly. 

And Snape mightve thought that was a punishment, said 
Harry, but Ginny, Neville, and 
Luna probably had a good laugh 
with Hagrid. The Forbidden Forest
 . . . theyve faced plenty worse 
than the Forbidden Forest, big deal! 
He felt relieved; he had been 
imagining horrors, the Cruciatus 
Curse at the very least. 
THE  GOBLINS  REVENGE  303  What we really wanted to know
, Professor Black, is whether 
anyone else has, um, taken out th
e sword at all? Maybe its been 
taken away for cleaning
 or  or something? Phineas Nigellus paused again in 
his struggles to 
free his eyes 
and sniggered. 
Muggle-borns,
 he said. Goblin-made
 armor does not require 
cleaning, simple girl. Goblins silv
er repels mundane dirt, imbibing 
only that which strengthens it. 
Dont call Hermione simple, said Harry. 
I grow weary of contradiction, said Phineas Nigellus. Perhaps 
it is time for me to return to the headmasters office? 
Still blindfolded, he began gropin
g the side of his frame, trying 
to feel his way out of his picture an
d back into the one at Hogwarts. 
Harry had a sudden inspiration. 
Dumbledore! Cant you 
bring us Dumbledore? I beg your pardon? asked Phineas Nigellus. 
Professor Dumbledores portrait  couldnt you bring him 
along, here, into yours? 
Phineas Nigellus turned his face
 in the direction of Harrys 
voice. Evidently it is not only Muggle
-borns who are ignorant, Potter. 
The portraits of Hogwarts may commune with each other, but they 
cannot travel outside the castle except to visit a painting of them-

selves hanging elsewhere. Dumbledore cannot come here with me, 
and after the treatment I have receiv
ed at your hands, I can assure 
you that I shall not be making a return visit! 
Slightly crestfallen, Harry watched Phineas redouble his attempts 
to leave his frame. Professor Black, said Hermio
ne, couldnt you just tell us, 
please,
 CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  304  when was the last time the sword wa
s taken out of its case? Before 
Ginny took it out, I mean? 
Phineas snorted impatiently. 
I believe that the last time I 
saw the sword of Gryffindor leave 
its case was when Professor Dumble
dore used it to break open a 
ring. Hermione whipped around to look
 at Harry. Neither of them 
dared say more in front of Phinea
s Nigellus, who had at last man-
aged to locate the exit. 
Well, good night to you, he said
 a little waspishly, and he began 
to move out of sight again. Only the edge of his hat brim remained 
in view when Harry ga
ve a sudden shout. 
Wait! Have you told 
Snape you saw this? 
Phineas Nigellus stuck his blin
dfolded head back into the 
picture. Professor Snape has more important things on his mind than the 
many eccentricities of Albus Dumbledore. 
Good-bye,
 Potter! And with that, he vanished completely, leaving behind him noth-
ing but his murky backdrop. 
Harry! Hermione cried. 
I know! Harry shouted. Unable 
to contain himself, he punched 
the air; it was more than he had dared to hope for. He strode up and 
down the tent, feeling that he could 
have run a mile; he did not even 
feel hungry anymore. Hermione was squashing Phineas Nigelluss 
portrait back into the beaded ba
g; when she had fastened the clasp 
she threw the bag aside and rais
ed a shining face to Harry. 
The sword can destroy Horcruxes! Goblin-made blades imbibe 
only that which strengthen them
  Harry, that swords impreg-
nated with basilisk venom! THE  GOBLINS  REVENGE  305  And Dumbledore didnt give it to
 me because he still needed it, 
he wanted to use it
 on the locket  
 and he must have realized they
 wouldnt let you have it if he 
put it in his will  
 so he made a copy  
 and put a fake in the glass case  
 and he left the real one  where? 

They gazed at each other; Harry felt that the answer was dangling invisibly in the air above them, tantalizingly close. Why hadnt Dum-
bledore told him? Or had he, in 
fact, told Harry, but Harry had not 
realized it at the time? 
Think! whispered Hermione. Think! Where would he have 
left it? 
Not at Hogwarts, said Ha
rry, resuming his pacing. 
Somewhere in Hogsmeade? suggested Hermione. 

The Shrieking Shack? said 
Harry. Nobody ever goes in 
there. But Snape knows how to get in, wouldnt that be a bit risky? 
Dumbledore trusted Snape, Harry reminded her. 
Not enough to tell him that he had swapped the swords, said 
Hermione. 
Yeah, youre right! said Harry, an
d he felt even more cheered at 
the thought that Dumbledore had 
had some reservations, however 
faint, about Snapes trustworthiness. So, would he have hidden 
the sword well away from Hogsme
ade, then? What dyou reckon, 
Ron? Ron? 
Harry looked around. For one bewildered moment he thought 
that Ron had left the tent, then re
alized that Ron was lying in the 
shadow of a lower bunk, looking stony. 
CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  306  Oh, remembered me, have you? he said. 
What? 

Ron snorted as he stared up at the underside of the upper 
bunk. 
You two carry on. Dont let me spoil your fun. 
Perplexed, Harry looked to He
rmione for help, but she shook 
her head, apparently as 
nonplussed as he was. 
Whats the problem? asked Harry. 
Problem? Theres no problem, said 
Ron, still refusing to look at 
Harry. Not according to you, anyway. 
There were several 
plunks
 on the canvas over their heads. It had 
started to rain. Well, youve obviously got a prob
lem, said Harry. Spit it out, 
will you? 
Ron swung his long legs off the 
bed and sat up. He looked mean, 
unlike himself. 
All right, Ill spit it out. Don
t expect me to skip up and down 
the tent because theres some othe
r damn thing weve got to find. 
Just add it to the list of stuff you dont know. 
I dont know? repeated Harry, 
I dont know? Plunk, plunk, plunk. The rain was falling harder and heavier; 
it pattered on the leaf-strewn bank all around them and into the 
river chattering through the dark
. Dread doused Harrys jubilation: Ron was saying exactly what he 
had suspected and feared him to 
be thinking. 
Its not like Im not having the ti
me of my life here, said Ron, 
you know, with my arm mangled and nothing to eat and freezing 
my backside off every night. I just
 hoped, you know, after wed been 
running round a few weeks, we
d have achieved something. 
THE  GOBLINS  REVENGE  307  Ron, Hermione said, but in such a quiet voice that Ron could 
pretend not to have heard it over
 the loud tattoo the rain was now 
beating on the tent. I thought you knew what youd signed up for, said Harry. 
Yeah, I thought I did too. So what part of it isnt living up to your expectations? asked 
Harry. Anger was coming to his d
efense now. Did you think wed 
be staying in five-star hotels? Fi
nding a Horcrux every other day? Did you think youd be back
 to Mummy by Christmas? 
We thought you knew what you were doing! shouted Ron, 
standing up, and his words pierce
d Harry like scalding knives. We 
thought Dumbledore had told you wh
at to do, we thought you had 
a real plan! 
Ron! said Hermione, this time
 clearly audible over the rain 
thundering on the tent roof, but again, he ignored her. 
Well, sorry to let you down, sa
id Harry, his voice quite calm 
even though he felt hollow, inadeq
uate. Ive been straight with you 
from the start, I told you everything Dumbledore told me. And in 
case you havent no
ticed, weve found one Horcrux  
Yeah, and were about as near getting rid of it as we are to finding 
the rest of them  nowhere ef
fing near, in other words! 
Take off the locket, Ron, Herm
ione said, her voice unusually high. Please take it off. You woul
dnt be talking like this if you 
hadnt been wear
ing it all day. 
Yeah, he would, said Harry, 
who did not want excuses made 
for Ron. Dyou think 
I havent noticed the tw
o of you whispering 
behind my back? Dyou think I didnt guess you were thinking this 
stuff? 
Harry, we werent  CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  308  Dont lie! Ron hurled at her. You
 said it too, you said you were 
disappointed, you said youd though
t he had a bit more to go on 
than  I didnt say it like that  
Harry, I didnt! she cried. 
The rain was pounding the tent, 
tears were pouring down Hermi-
ones face, and the excitement of 
a few minutes before had vanished 
as if it had never been, a short-li
ved firework that had flared and 
died, leaving everything dark, wet,
 and cold. The sword of Gryffin-
dor was hidden they knew not where,
 and they were three teenagers 
in a tent whose only achievement was not, yet, to be dead. 
So why are you still he
re? Harry asked Ron. 
Search me, said Ron. 
Go home then, said Harry. 
Yeah, maybe I will! shouted Ro
n, and he took several steps 
toward Harry, who did not back aw
ay. Didnt you hear what they 
said about my sister? But you dont gi
ve a rats fart, do you, its only 
the Forbidden Forest, Harry 
Ive-Faced-Worse
 Potter doesnt care 
what happens to her in here  we
ll, I do, all right, giant spiders 
and mental stuff  
I was only saying  she was wi
th the others, they were with 
Hagrid  
Yeah, I get it, you dont care! 
And what about the rest of my 
family, the Weasleys dont need another kid injured, did you hear 

that? Yeah, I  
Not bothered what 
it meant, though? 
Ron! said Hermione, forcing her way between them. I dont 
think it means anything new 
has happened, anything we dont 
know about; think, Ron, Bills al
ready scarred, plenty of people 
THE  GOBLINS  REVENGE  309  must have seen that George has lost
 an ear by now, and youre sup-
posed to be on your deathbed with spattergroit, Im sure thats all 

he meant  
Oh, youre sure, are you? Righ
t then, well, I wont bother my-
self about them. Its all right for you two, isnt it, with your parents 
safely out of the way  
My parents are dead
! Harry bellowed. And mine could be going the same way! yelled Ron. 
Then GO! roared Harry. Go ba
ck to them, pretend youve 
got over your spattergroit and Mu
mmyll be able to feed you up 
and  
Ron made a sudden movement: Harry reacted, but before ei-
ther wand was clear of its owners
 pocket, Hermione had raised her 
own. Protego
! she cried, and 
an invisible shield expanded between 
her and Harry on the one side and Ron on the other; all of them 
were forced backward a few steps by
 the strength of the spell, and 
Harry and Ron glared from either si
de of the transparent barrier as 
though they were seeing each othe
r clearly for the first time. Harry 
felt a corrosive hatred toward Ro
n: Something had broken between 
them. Leave the Horcrux, Harry said. 
Ron wrenched the chain from over 
his head and cast the locket 
into a nearby chair. He turned to Hermione. 
What are you doing? What do you mean? 
Are you staying, or what? 
I . . . She looked anguished. Y
es  yes, Im staying. Ron, we 
said wed go with Harry,
 we said wed help  
CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  310  I get it. You choose him. 
Ron, no  please  come back, come back! 

She was impeded by her own Shie
ld Charm; by 
the time she 
had removed it he ha
d already stormed into the night. Harry stood 
quite still and silent, listening to her sobbing and calling Rons name 
amongst the trees. 
After a few minutes she returned, 
her sopping hair plastered to 
her face. 
Hes g-g-gone! 
Disapparated! She threw herself into a chair, curled up, and started to cry. 

Harry felt dazed. He stooped, picked
 up the Horcrux, and placed 
it around his own neck. He dragged blankets off Rons bunk and 
threw them over Hermione. Then
 he climbed onto his own bed 
and stared up at the dark canvas 
roof, listening to the pounding of 
the rain. C H A P T E R  S I X T E E N   311  GODRIC
S HOLLOW 
  hen Harry woke the following day it was several sec-
onds before he remembered
 what had happened. Then 
he hoped, childishly, that it had 
been a dream, that Ron was still 
there and had never left. Yet by tu
rning his head on his pillow he 
could see Rons deserted bunk. It was like a dead body in the way 
it seemed to draw his eyes. Harry jumped down from his own bed, 
keeping his eyes averted from Rons. Hermione, who was already 

busy in the kitchen, did not wi
sh Harry good morning, but turned 
her face away quickl
y as he went by. Hes gone,
 Harry told himself. 
Hes gone.
 He had to keep think-
ing it as he washed and dressed, 
as though repeti
tion would dull 
the shock of it. 
Hes gone and hes not coming back.
 And that was the 
simple truth of it, Harry knew, be
cause their protective enchant-
ments meant that it would be impossible, once they vacated this 
spot, for Ron to fi
nd them again. 
He and Hermione ate br
eakfast in silence. 
Hermiones eyes were 
W CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  312  puffy and red; she looked as if she had not slept. They packed up 
their things, Hermione dawdling
. Harry knew why she wanted to 
spin out their time on the riverbank; several times he saw her look 
up eagerly, and he was sure she had deluded herself into thinking 
that she heard footsteps through th
e heavy rain, but no red-haired 
figure appeared between the trees.
 Every time Harry imitated her, 
looked around (for he could not he
lp hoping a little, himself) and 
saw nothing but rain-swept woods, another little parcel of fury 
exploded inside him. He could hear Ron saying, 
We thought you 
knew what you were doing
!, and he resumed packing with a hard 
knot in the pit of his stomach. 
The muddy river beside them was 
rising rapidly and would soon 
spill over onto their bank. They had lingered a good hour after they 
would usually have departed their 
campsite. Finally having entirely 
repacked the beaded bag three 
times, Hermione seemed unable 
to find any more reasons to de
lay: She and Harry grasped hands 
and Disapparated, reappearing on a windswept heather-covered 
hillside. 
The instant they arrived, Hermione dropped Harrys hand and 
walked away from him, finally sitting down on a large rock, her face 

on her knees, shaking with what 
he knew were sobs. He watched 
her, supposing that he ought to 
go and comfort her, but something 
kept him rooted to the spot. Eve
rything inside him felt cold and 
tight: Again he saw the contemptuous expression on Rons face. 
Harry strode off through the heather,
 walking in a large circle with 
the distraught Hermione at its cent
er, casting the spells she usually 
performed to ensure their protection. They did not discuss Ron at all 
over the next few days. Harry was 
determined never to mention his name again, and Hermione seemed 
GODRICS  HOLLOW  313  to know that it was no use forcin
g the issue, although sometimes at 
night when she thought he was sleeping, he would hear her crying. 

Meanwhile Harry had started bringi
ng out the Marauders Map and 
examining it by wandlight. He 
was waiting for the moment when 
Rons labeled dot would reappear in the corridors of Hogwarts, 
proving that he had returned to 
the comfortable castle, protected 
by his status of pureblood. Howe
ver, Ron did not appear on the 
map, and after a while Harry found him
self taking it out simply to 
stare at Ginnys name in the gi
rls dormitory, wondering whether 
the intensity with which he gazed 
at it might break into her sleep, 
that she would somehow know he 
was thinking about her, hoping 
that she was all right. 
By day, they devoted themselves 
to trying to determine the pos-
sible locations of Gryffindors swor
d, but the more they talked about 
the places in which Dumbledore might have hidden it, the more des-

perate and far-fetched their specul
ation became. Cudgel his brains 
though he might, Harry could 
not remember Dumbledore ever 
mentioning a place in which he 
might hide something. There were 
moments when he did not know whether he was angrier with Ron 
or with Dumbledore. 
We thought you knew what you were doing.
 . . . 
We thought Dumbledore had told you what to do.
 . . . 
We thought you 
had a real plan! He could not hide it from himsel
f: Ron had been right. Dumble-
dore had left him with virtually no
thing. They had discovered one 
Horcrux, but they had no means of
 destroying it: The others were 
as unattainable as they had ever
 been. Hopelessness threatened to 
engulf him. He was staggered now 
to think of his own presumption 
in accepting his friends offers to
 accompany him on this meander-
ing, pointless journey. He knew nothing, he had no ideas, and he 
CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  314  was constantly, painfully on the al
ert for any indication that Her-
mione too was about to 
tell him that she had had enough, that she 
was leaving. They were spending many evening
s in near silence, and Hermi-
one took to bringing out Phineas 
Nigelluss portrait and propping 
it up in a chair, as though he migh
t fill part of the gaping hole left 
by Rons departure. Despite his pr
evious assertion that he would 
never visit them again, Phineas Nigellus did not seem able to re-
sist the chance to find out more about what Harry was up to, and 
consented to reappear, blindfolded,
 every few days or so. Harry was 
even glad to see him, because he wa
s company, albeit of a snide and 
taunting kind. They relished any 
news about what was happening at 
Hogwarts, though Phineas Nigellus 
was not an ideal informer. He 
venerated Snape, the first Slytherin headmaster since he himself had 
controlled the school, an
d they had to be careful not to criticize or 
ask impertinent questions about Sn
ape, or Phineas Nigellus would 
instantly leave his painting. However, he did let drop certai
n snippets. Snape seemed to be 
facing a constant, low level of muti
ny from a hard core of students. 
Ginny had been banned from goin
g into Hogsmeade. Snape had 
reinstated Umbridges ol
d decree forbidding ga
therings of three or 
more students or any unofficial student societies. 
From all of these things, Harry deduced that Ginny, and prob-
ably Neville and Luna along with 
her, had been doing their best to 
continue Dumbledores Army. This scant news made Harry want 
to see Ginny so badly it felt like 
a stomachache; but it also made 
him think of Ron again, and of
 Dumbledore, and of Hogwarts 
itself, which he missed nearly as mu
ch as his ex-girlfriend. Indeed, 
as Phineas Nigellus talked abou
t Snapes crackdown, Harry expe-
GODRICS  HOLLOW  315  rienced a split second of madness 
when he imagined simply going 
back to school to join the dest
abilization of Snapes regime: Be-
ing fed, and having a soft bed, an
d other people being in charge, 
seemed the most wonderful prospect
 in the world at that moment. 
But then he remembered that he
 was Undesirable Number One, 
that there was a ten-thousand-Galle
on price on his head, and that 
to walk into Hogwarts these days 
was just as dangerous as walking 
into the Ministry of Magic. Ind
eed, Phineas Nigellus inadvertently emphasized this fact by slipping
 in leading questions about Harry 
and Hermiones whereabouts. Herm
ione shoved him back inside 
the beaded bag every ti
me he did this, and P
hineas Nigellus invari-
ably refused to reappear for seve
ral days after these unceremonious 
good-byes. The weather grew colder and colder. They did not dare remain in 
any one area too long, so rather 
than staying in the south of Eng-
land, where a hard ground frost was the worst of their worries, they 
continued to meander up and down the country, braving a moun-
tainside, where sleet pounded the t
ent; a wide, flat marsh, where the 
tent was flooded with chill water; and a tiny island in the middle of 
a Scottish loch, where snow half 
buried the tent in the night. They had already spotted Christma
s trees twinkling from several 
sitting room windows before th
ere came an evening when Harry 
resolved to suggest, again, what se
emed to him the only unexplored 
avenue left to them. They had ju
st eaten an unusually good meal: 
Hermione had been to a supermarke
t under the Invisibility Cloak 
(scrupulously dropping the money into
 an open till as she left), and 
Harry thought that she might be mo
re persuadable than usual on a 
stomach full of spaghetti Bolognes
e and tinned pears. He had also 
had the foresight to suggest that th
ey take a few hours break from 
CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  316  wearing the Horcrux, which was ha
nging over the end of the bunk 
beside him. Hermione? Hmm? She was curled up in one of the sagging armchairs with 
The Tales of Beedle the Bard.
 He could not imagine how much more 
she could get out of the book, which was not, after all, very long; 
but evidently she was still deciphering something in it, because 

Spellmans Syllabary
 lay open on the arm of the chair. 
Harry cleared his throat. He felt 
exactly as he had done on the 
occasion, several years previously, when he had asked Professor Mc-
Gonagall whether he could go into 
Hogsmeade, despite the fact that he had not persuaded the Dursleys to sign his permission slip. 
Hermione, Ive been
 thinking, and  Harry, could you help me with something? 
Apparently she had not been listening to him. She leaned 
forward and 
held out 
The Tales of Beedle the Bard.
 Look at that symbol, she said, 
pointing to the top of a page. 
Above what Harry assumed was the ti
tle of the story (being unable 
to read runes, he could not be sure), there was a picture of what 
looked like a triangular eye, its 
pupil crossed with a vertical line. 
I never took Ancient Runes, Hermione. 
I know that, but it isnt a rune and its not in the syllabary, either. 
All along I thought it was a picture 
of an eye, but I dont think it 
is! Its been inked in, look, somebodys
 drawn it there, it isnt really 
part of the book. Think, have
 you ever seen it before? 
No . . . No, wait a moment. Ha
rry looked closer. Isnt it the 
same symbol Lunas dad wa
s wearing round his neck? 
Well, thats what I thought too! 
Then its Grindelwalds mark. 
GODRICS  HOLLOW  317  She stared at hi
m, openmouthed. 
What? Krum told me . . . 
He recounted the story that Viktor Krum had told him at the 
wedding. Hermione looked astonished. 
Grindelwalds 
mark? 
She looked from Harry to the weir
d symbol and back again. Ive 
never heard that Grindelwald had a mark. Theres no mention of it 
in anything Ive ever read about him. 
Well, like I say, Krum reckoned that symbol was carved on a 
wall at Durmstrang, and Grindelwald put it there. 
She fell back into the old armchair, frowning. 
Thats very odd. If its a symbol 
of Dark Magic, whats it doing 
in a book of childrens stories? 
Yeah, it is weird, said Harry. And youd think Scrimgeour 
would have recognized it. He was Minister, he ought to have been 
expert on Dark stuff. 
I know. . . . Perhaps he thought it 
was an eye, just like I did. All 
the other stories have little 
pictures over 
the titles. She did not speak, but continued 
to pore over the strange mark. 
Harry tried again. 
Hermione? Hmm? 

Ive been thinking. I  I want 
to go to Godrics Hollow. 
She looked up at him, but her eyes were unfocused, and he 
was sure she was still thinking ab
out the mysterious mark on the 
book. 
Yes, she said. Yes, Ive been wondering that too. I really think 
well have to. CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  318  Did you hear me right? he asked. 
Of course I did. You want to go
 to Godrics Hollow. I agree, I 
think we should. I mean, I cant thin
k of anywhere else it could be 
either. Itll be dangerous, but th
e more I think about it, the more 
likely it seems its there. 
Er  whats
 there? asked Harry. 
At that, she looked just as
 bewildered as he felt. 
Well, the sword, Harry! Dumbledore must have known youd 
want to go back there, and I me
an, Godrics Hollow is Godric 
Gryffindors birthplace  
Really? Gryffindor came
 from Godrics Hollow? Harry, did you ever even open 
A History of Magic
? Erm, he said, smiling for what fel
t like the first time in months: 
The muscles in his face
 felt oddly stiff. I mi
ghtve opened it, you 
know, when I bought it . . . just the 
once. . . . 
Well, as the village is named after him Id have thought you 
might have made the connection,
 said Hermione. She sounded 
much more like her old self than
 she had done of late; Harry half 
expected her to announce that she 
was off to the library. Theres a 
bit about the village in 
A History of Magic,
 wait . . . 
She opened the beaded bag and rummaged for a while, finally 
extracting her copy of th
eir old school textbook, 
A History of Magic 
by Bathilda Bagshot, which she 
thumbed through until finding the 
page she wanted. Upon the signature of the Internat
ional Statute of Secrecy in 1689, 
wizards went into hiding for good. It
 was natural, perhaps, that they 
formed their own small communities
 within a community. Many small 
villages and hamlets attracted several magical families, who banded 
together for mutual support and pr
otection. The villages of Tinworth
 GODRICS  HOLLOW  319  in Cornwall, Upper Flagley in Yorkshire, and Ottery St. Catchpole on 
the south coast of England were no
table homes to knots of Wizarding 
families who lived alongside tolerant and sometimes Confunded Mug-

gles. Most celebrated of these half-m
agical dwelling places is, perhaps, 
Godrics Hollow, the West Country village where the great wizard 
Godric Gryffindor was born, an
d where Bowman Wright, Wizard-
ing smith, forged the first Golden 
Snitch. The graveyard is full of the 
names of ancient magical families, 
and this accounts, no doubt, for 
the stories of hauntings that have dogged the little church beside it for 
many centuries.
 You and your parents arent m
entioned, Hermione said, closing 
the book, because Professor Bags
hot doesnt cover anything later 
than the end of the nineteenth ce
ntury. But you see? Godrics Hol-
low, Godric Gryffindor, Gryffindors sword; dont you think Dum-
bledore would have expected you to make the connection? 
Oh yeah . . . Harry did not want to admit th
at he had not been thinking 
about the sword at all when he suggested they go to Godrics Hol-
low. For him, the lure of the villag
e lay in his pare
nts graves, the 
house where he had narrowly escape
d death, and in the person of 
Bathilda Bagshot. 
Remember what Muriel said? he asked eventually. 
Who? 
You know, he hesitated: He 
did not want to say Rons name. 
Ginnys great-aunt. At the wedding. The one who said you had 

skinny ankles. 
Oh, said Hermione. It was a 
sticky moment: Harry knew that 
she had sensed Rons name in
 the offing. He rushed on: 
She said Bathilda Bagshot stil
l lives in Godr
ics Hollow. 
CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  320  Bathilda Bagshot, murmured 
Hermione, running her index 
finger over Bathildas embosse
d name on the front cover of 
A His-tory of Magic.
 Well, I suppose  
She gasped so dramatically that
 Harrys insides turned over; he 
drew his wand, looking around at 
the entrance, half expecting to 
see a hand forcing its way through 
the entrance flap, but there was 
nothing there. What? he said, half angry, ha
lf relieved. What did you do 
that for? I thought youd seen a De
ath Eater unzipping the tent, at least  
Harry, 
what if Bathildas got the sword
? What if Dumbledore 
entrusted it to her? 
Harry considered this possibility. 
Bathilda would be an extremely 
old woman by now, and according to
 Muriel, she was gaga. Was it 
likely that Dumbledore would have
 hidden the sword of Gryffindor 
with her? If so, Harry felt that Dumbledore had left a great deal to 
chance: Dumbledore had never reveal
ed that he had replaced the 
sword with a fake, nor had he so 
much as mentioned
 a friendship 
with Bathilda. Now, however, was not the moment to cast doubt 
on Hermiones theory, not when she was so surprisingly willing to 

fall in with Harr
ys dearest wish. Yeah, he might have done! So, ar
e we going to go to Godrics 
Hollow? 
Yes, but well have to think it
 through carefully, Harry. She 
was sitting up now, and Harry coul
d tell that the prospect of hav-
ing a plan again had lifted her mood as much as his. Well need to 
practice Disapparating together under the Invisibility Cloak for a 
start, and perhaps Disillusionment Charms would be sensible too, 

unless you think we should go the whole hog and use Polyjuice 
GODRICS  HOLLOW  321  Potion? In that case well need to collect hair from somebody. I 
actually think wed better do that
, Harry, the thicker our disguises 
the better. . . . Harry let her talk, nodding and 
agreeing whenever there was 
a pause, but his mind had left th
e conversation. For the first time 
since he had discovered that the 
sword in Gringotts was a fake, he 
felt excited. 
He was about to go home, about to
 return to the place where he 
had had a family. It was in Godrics Hollow that, but for Voldemort, 
he would have grown up and spent 
every school holiday. He could 
have invited friends to his house. . . . He might even have had broth-
ers and sisters. . . . It would ha
ve been his mother who had made 
his seventeenth birthday cake. The li
fe he had lost had hardly ever 
seemed so real to him as at this moment, when he knew he was about 
to see the place where it had been taken from him. After Hermione 

had gone to bed that night, Harry quietly extracted his rucksack from 
Hermiones beaded bag, and from 
inside it, the photograph album 
Hagrid had given him so long ago. 
For the first time in months, he 
perused the old pictures of his pare
nts, smiling and waving up at him 
from the images, which were al
l he had left of them now. Harry would gladly have set out for Godrics Hollow the follow-
ing day, but Hermione had other ideas. Convinced as she was that 
Voldemort would expect Harry to retu
rn to the scene of his parents 
deaths, she was determined that they
 would set off only after they had 
ensured that they had the best disg
uises possible. It was therefore a 
full week later  once they had su
rreptitiously obtained hairs from 
innocent Muggles who were Chri
stmas shopping, and had prac-ticed Apparating and Disapparating while underneath the Invisibility 

Cloak together  that Hermione agreed to make the journey. 
CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  322  They were to Apparate to the village under cover of darkness, 
so it was late afternoon when they finally swallowed Polyjuice Po-

tion, Harry transforming into a balding, middle-aged Muggle man, 
Hermione into his small and rath
er mousy wife. The beaded bag 
containing all of their possessions 
(apart from the Horcrux, which 
Harry was wearing around his neck) was tucked into an inside 
pocket of Hermiones
 buttoned-up coat. Harry lowered the Invis-
ibility Cloak over them, then they 
turned into the suffocating dark-
ness once again. 
Heart beating in his throat, Ha
rry opened his eyes. They were 
standing hand in hand in a snowy lane under a dark blue sky, in 
which the nights first stars were
 already glimmering feebly. Cot-
tages stood on either side of the 
narrow road, Christmas decorations twinkling in their windows. A shor
t way ahead of them, a glow of 
golden streetlights indicated the center of the village. 
All this snow! Hermione whispe
red beneath the cloak. Why 
didnt we think of snow? After all 
our precautions, well leave prints! 
Well just have to get rid of them  you go in front, Ill do it  
Harry did not want to enter the vi
llage like a pantomime horse, 
trying to keep themselves concea
led while magically covering their 
traces. 
Lets take off the Cloak, sa
id Harry, and when she looked 
frightened, Oh, come on, we dont 
look like us and theres no one 
around. 
He stowed the Cloak under his ja
cket and they made their way 
forward unhampered, the icy air stinging their faces as they passed 
more cottages: Any one of them 
might have been the one in which 
James and Lily had once lived or
 where Bathilda lived now. Harry 
gazed at the front doors, their snow
-burdened roofs, and their front 
GODRICS  HOLLOW  323  porches, wondering whether he re
membered any of them, knowing 
deep inside that it was impossible, 
that he had been little more than 
a year old when he had left this pl
ace forever. He was not even sure 
whether he would be able
 to see the cottage at all; he did not know 
what happened when the subjects 
of a Fidelius Charm died. Then 
the little lane along which they were
 walking curved to the left and 
the heart of the village, a smal
l square, was revealed to them. 
Strung all around with colored li
ghts, there was what looked like 
a war memorial in the middle, pa
rtly obscured by a windblown 
Christmas tree. There were several sh
ops, a post office, a pub, and a 
little church whose stained-glass windows were glowing jewel-bright 
across the square. 
The snow here had become impa
cted: It was hard and slippery 
where people had trodden on it all 
day. Villagers were crisscrossing 
in front of them, their figures br
iefly illuminated by streetlamps. 
They heard a snatch of laughter
 and pop music as the pub door 
opened and closed; then they heard a 
carol start up inside the little 
church. 
Harry, I think its Christmas Eve! said Hermione. 
Is it? 
He had lost track of the date; 
they had not seen a newspaper for 
weeks. Im sure it is, said Hermione, her eyes upon the church. They 
. . . theyll be in th
ere, wont they? Your 
mum and dad? I can see 
the graveyard behind it. 
Harry felt a thrill of 
something that was beyond excitement, 
more like fear. Now that he was 
so near, he wondered whether he 
wanted to see after al
l. Perhaps Hermione knew how he was feel-
ing, because she reached for his hand
 and took the lead for the first 
CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  324  time, pulling him forward. Halfway across the square, however, she 
stopped dead. 
Harry, look! She was pointing at the war memo
rial. As they had passed it, 
it had transformed. Instead of an
 obelisk covered in names, there 
was a statue of three people: a man 
with untidy hair and glasses, a 
woman with long hair and a kind, 
pretty face, and a baby boy sit-
ting in his mothers arms. Snow lay 
upon all their heads, like fluffy 
white caps. 
Harry drew closer, gazing up into his parents faces. He had never 
imagined that there would be a st
atue. . . . How strange it was to 
see himself represented in stone, 
a happy baby without a scar on 
his forehead. . . . 
Cmon, said Harry, when he had looked his fill, and they turned 
again toward the church. As they crossed the road, he glanced over 

his shoulder; the statue had turn
ed back into the war memorial. 
The singing grew louder as they 
approached the church. It made 
Harrys throat constrict, it remind
ed him so forcefully of Hogwarts, 
of Peeves bellowing rude versions of
 carols from inside suits of ar-
mor, of the Great Halls twelve
 Christmas trees, of Dumbledore 
wearing a bonnet he had won in a cr
acker, of Ron in a hand-knitted 
sweater. . . . There was a kissing gate at the 
entrance to the graveyard. Hermi-
one pushed it open as quietly as
 possible and they edged through 
it. On either side of the slippery 
path to the church doors, the snow 
lay deep and untouched. They mo
ved off through the snow, carv-
ing deep trenches behind them as 
they walked around the building, 
keeping to the shadows bene
ath the brilliant windows. Behind the church, row upon row of snowy tombstones pro-
GODRICS  HOLLOW  325  truded from a blanket of
 pale blue that was flecked with dazzling 
red, gold, and green wherever the 
reflections from the stained glass 
hit the snow. Keeping his hand closed tightly on the wand in his 
jacket pocket, Harry moved 
toward the nearest grave. 
Look at this, its an Abbott, coul
d be some long-lost relation of 
Hannahs! 
Keep your voice down, Hermione begged him. 

They waded deeper and deeper into the graveyard, gouging dark 
tracks into the snow behind them, 
stooping to peer at the words on 
old headstones, every now and then
 squinting into the surrounding 
darkness to make absolutely sure 
that they were unaccompanied. Harry, here! Hermione was two rows of tombsto
nes away; he had to wade back 
to her, his heart positively banging in his chest. 
Is it  ? 

No, but look! She pointed to the dark sto
ne. Harry stooped down and saw, 
upon the frozen, lichen-spotted granite, the words 
Kendra Dum-
bledore and, a short way below her 
dates of birth and death, 
and 
Her Daughter Ariana
. There was also a quotation: Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. 
 So Rita Skeeter and Muriel had 
got some of their facts right. 
The Dumbledore family had indeed 
lived here, and part of it had 
died here. Seeing the grave was worse than hearing about it. Harry could not 
help thinking that he and Dumble
dore both had deep roots in this 
graveyard, and that Dumbledore ough
t to have told him so, yet he 
CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  326  had never thought to share the co
nnection. They could have visited 
the place together; for a moment 
Harry imagined coming here with 
Dumbledore, of what a bond that 
would have been, of how much it 
would have meant to him. But it seemed that to Dumbledore, the 
fact that their families lay side 
by side in the same graveyard had 
been an unimportant coincidence, i
rrelevant, perhaps, to the job he 
wanted Harry to do. 
Hermione was looking at Harry, and he was glad that his face was 
hidden in shadow. He read the words on the tombstone again. 
Where 
your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
 He did not understand 
what these words meant. Surely 
Dumbledore had chosen them, as 
the eldest member of the fami
ly once his mother had died. 
Are you sure he never ment
ioned  ? Hermione began. 
No, said Harry curtly, then, lets keep looking, and he turned 
away, wishing he had not seen the st
one: He did not want his excited 
trepidation tainted with resentment. 
Here! cried Hermione again a fe
w moments later from out of 
the darkness. Oh no, sorry! I thought it said Potter. 
She was rubbing at a crumbling, mossy stone, gazing down at it, 
a little frown on her face. 
Harry, come back a moment. 
He did not want to be sidetrac
ked again, and only grudgingly 
made his way back through the snow toward her. 
What? 
Look at this! 
The grave was extremely old, we
athered so that Harry could 
hardly make out the name. Hermione showed him the symbol be-
neath it. 
Harry, thats the mark in the book! 
GODRICS  HOLLOW  327  He peered at the place she indica
ted: The stone was so worn that 
it was hard to make out what wa
s engraved there, though there did 
seem to be a triangular mark be
neath the nearly illegible name. 
Yeah . . . it could be. . . . Hermione lit her wand and pointed it at the name on the 
headstone. 
It says Ig  Ignotus, I think. . . . 

Im going to keep looking for 
my parents, all right? Harry 
told her, a slight edge 
to his voice, and he set off again, leaving her 
crouched beside 
the old grave. Every now and then he recognized
 a surname that, like Abbott, 
he had met at Hogwarts. Sometimes there were several generations 
of the same Wizarding family re
presented in the graveyard: Harry 
could tell from the dates that it 
had either died out, or the cur-
rent members had moved away from Godrics Hollow. Deeper and 

deeper amongst the graves he went, and every time he reached a new 
headstone he felt a little lurch of apprehension and anticipation. 
The darkness and the silence seemed to become, all of a sudden, 
much deeper. Harry looked around
, worried, thinking of demen-
tors, then realized that the caro
ls had finished, that the chatter 
and flurry of churchgoers were fadi
ng away as they made their way 
back into the square. Somebody in
side the church had just turned 
off the lights. Then Hermiones voice came out of
 the blackness for the third 
time, sharp and clear from a few yards away. 
Harry, theyre here . . . right here. And he knew by her tone that it was his mother and father this 
time: He moved toward her, feel
ing as if something heavy were 
pressing on his chest, the same 
sensation he had had right after 
CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  328  Dumbledore had died, a grief that
 had actually weighed on his 
heart and lungs. 
The headstone was only two rows
 behind Kendra and Arianas. 
It was made of white 
marble, just like Dumbledores tomb, and this 
made it easy to read, as it seemed to shine in the dark. Harry did 
not need to kneel or even approach 
very close to it to make out the 
words engraved upon it. 

 g^jbp=mlqqbo=ifiv=mlqqbo=
_lok=OT=j^o`e=NVSM=_lok=PM=g^kr^ov=NVSM=
afba=PN=l`ql_bo=NVUN=afba=PN=l`ql_bo=NVUN=
The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. 
 Harry read the words slowly, as 
though he would have only 
one chance to take in their meaning, and he read the last of them 
aloud. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. . . A horrible 
thought came to him, and with it a 
kind of panic. Isnt that a Death 
Eater idea? Why is that there? 
It doesnt mean defeating deat
h in the way the Death Eaters 
mean it, Harry, said Hermione, her voice gentle. It means . . . you know . . . living beyond death. Living after death. 
But they were not living, thought Harry: They were gone. The 
empty words could not disguise the 
fact that his pa
rents moldering 
remains lay beneath snow and stone, indifferent, unknowing. And 
tears came before he could stop
 them, boiling hot then instantly 
freezing on his face, and what was 
the point in wiping them off or 
pretending? He let them fall, his li
ps pressed hard together, looking 
GODRICS  HOLLOW  329  down at the thick snow hiding fr
om his eyes the place where the 
last of Lily and James lay, bones 
now, surely, or dust, not knowing 
or caring that their living son st
ood so near, his heart still beating, 
alive because of their sacrifice and 
close to wishing, at this moment, 
that he was sleeping un
der the snow with them. Hermione had taken his hand agai
n and was gripping it tightly. 
He could not look at her, but re
turned the pressure, now taking 
deep, sharp gulps of the night air, 
trying to steady himself, trying 
to regain control. He should have
 brought something to give them, 
and he had not thought of it, and every plant in the graveyard was 

leafless and frozen. But Hermione raised her wand, moved it in a 
circle through the air, and a wrea
th of Christmas roses blossomed 
before them. Harry caug
ht it and laid it on
 his parents grave. 
As soon as he stood up he wanted to leave: He did not think he 
could stand another moment there.
 He put his arm around Hermi-
ones shoulders, and she put hers around his waist, and they turned 
in silence and walked away thro
ugh the snow, past Dumbledores 
mother and sister, back toward the 
dark church and the out-of-sight 
kissing gate. C H A P T E R  S E V E N T E E N   330  BATHILDA
S SECRET 
  arry, stop. 
Whats wrong? 
They had only just 
reached the grave of the unknown Abbott. 
Theres someone there. Someone watching us. I can tell. There, 
over by the bushes. 
They stood quite still, holding on to
 each other, gazing at the dense 
black boundary of the graveyard. Harry could not see anything. 
Are you sure? 
I saw something move, I coul
d have sworn I did. . . . She broke from him to free her wand arm. 

We look like Muggles, Harry pointed out. 
Muggles whove just been laying 
flowers on your parents grave! 
Harry, Im sure theres someone over there! 
Harry thought of A History of Magic
; the graveyard was supposed to be haunted: what if  ? But then he heard a rustle and saw a  

 H BATHILDAS  SECRET 
 331  little eddy of dislodged snow in
 the bush to which Hermione had 
pointed. Ghosts could not move snow. 
Its a cat, said Harry, after a seco
nd or two, or a bird. If it was 
a Death Eater wed be dead by now. But lets get out of here, and 
we can put the Cloak back on. 
They glanced back repeatedly as 
they made their way out of the 
graveyard. Harry, who did not feel as
 sanguine as he had pretended 
when reassuring Hermione, was glad 
to reach the gate and the slip-
pery pavement. They pulled the Invisibility Cloak back over them-
selves. The pub was fuller than before: Many voices inside it were 

now singing the carol that they ha
d heard as they approached the 
church. For a moment Harry consider
ed suggesting they take refuge 
inside it, but before he could 
say anything Hermione murmured, 
Lets go this way, and pulled him down the dark street leading out 
of the village in the opposite direction from which they had entered. Harry could make out the point where the cottages ended and the 
lane turned into open country again. They walked as quickly as they 
dared, past more windows sparkl
ing with multicolored lights, the 
outlines of Christmas trees 
dark through the curtains. How are we going to find Bath
ildas house? asked Hermione, 
who was shivering a little and kept 
glancing back over her shoulder. 
Harry? What do you think? Harry? 
She tugged at his arm, but Harry 
was not paying attention. He 
was looking toward the 
dark mass that stood at 
the very end of this 
row of houses. Next moment he 
had sped up, dragging Hermione 
along with him; she slip
ped a little on the ice. Harry  Look. . . . Look at 
it, Hermione. . . . 
 CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN 
 332  I dont . . . oh! 
He could see it; the Fidelius Charm must have died with James 
and Lily. The hedge had grown wild in the sixteen years since Hagrid 
had taken Harry from the rubble th
at lay scattered amongst the 
waist-high grass. Most of the cottage was still standing, though 
entirely covered in dark ivy and snow, but the right side of the top 
floor had been blown apart; that, Harry was sure, was where the 

curse had backfired. He and Herm
ione stood at the gate, gazing up 
at the wreck of what must once have been a cottage just like those 
that flanked it. I wonder why nobodys ever re
built it? whis
pered Hermione. 
Maybe you cant rebuild it? Har
ry replied. Maybe its like the 
injuries from Dark Magic and 
you cant repair the damage? He slipped a hand from beneath 
the Cloak and grasped the snowy and thickly rusted gate, not wishing to open it, but simply to hold 

some part of the house. 
Youre not going to go inside? It looks unsafe, it might  oh, 
Harry, look! 
His touch on the gate seemed to
 have done it. A sign had risen 
out of the ground in front of them, up through the tangles of nettles 

and weeds, like some bizarre, fast-growing flower, and in golden let-
ters upon the wood it said:  On this spot, on the night of 31 October 1981, 
Lily and James Potter lost their lives. 
Their son, Harry, remains the only wizard 
ever to have survived the Killing Curse. 
This house, invisible to Muggles, has been left 
in its ruined state as a monument to the Potters 
BATHILDAS  SECRET 
 333  and as a reminder of the violence 
that tore apart their family. 
And all around these neatly letter
ed words, scribbles had been 
added by other witches and wizard
s who had come to see the place 
where the Boy Who Lived had escaped. Some had merely signed 
their names in Everlasting Ink; othe
rs had carved their initials into 
the wood, still others had left mess
ages. The most recent of these, 
shining brightly over si
xteen years worth of ma
gical graffiti, all said 
similar things. 
Good luck, Harry, wherever you are. 
If you read this, Harry, were all behind you! Long live Harry Potter. 
 They shouldnt have written 
on the sign! said Hermione, 
indignant. 
But Harry beamed at her. 
Its brilliant. Im glad
 they did. I . . . 
He broke off. A heavily muffled fi
gure was hobbling up the lane 
toward them, silhouetted by the brig
ht lights in the distant square. 
Harry thought, though it was hard 
to judge, that the figure was a 
woman. She was moving slowly, possi
bly frightened of slipping on 
the snowy ground. Her stoop, her stoutness, her shuffling gait all 
gave an impression of extreme age. They watched in silence as she 
drew nearer. Harry was waiting to 
see whether she would turn into 
any of the cottages she was passing,
 but he knew instinctively that 
she would not. At last she came to a halt a few yards from them and 
simply stood there in the middle of the frozen road, facing them. 
CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN 
 334  He did not need Hermiones pinch to his arm. There was next to 
no chance that this woman was 
a Muggle: She was standing there 
gazing at a house that ought to have been completely invisible to her, 
if she was not a witch. Even assuming that she 
was a witch, however, 
it was odd behavior to come out on 
a night this cold, simply to look 
at an old ruin. By all the rules of normal magic, meanwhile, she 
ought not to be able to see Herm
ione and him at all. Nevertheless, 
Harry had the strangest feeling that sh
e knew that they were there, 
and also who they were. Just as he
 had reached this uneasy conclu-
sion, she raised a gloved hand and beckoned. 
Hermione moved closer to him under the Cloak, her arm pressed 
against his. How does she know? He shook his head. The woman 
beckoned again, more vigor-
ously. Harry could think of many
 reasons not to obey the sum-
mons, and yet his suspicions about her identity were growing 
stronger every moment that they
 stood facing each other in the 
deserted street. 
Was it possible that she had been 
waiting for them all these long 
months? That Dumbledore had told
 her to wait, and that Harry 
would come in the end? Was it not likely that it was she who had 
moved in the shadows in the graveyar
d and had followed them to this 
spot? Even her ability to sense them suggested some Dumbledore-ish 

power that he had neve
r encountered before. 
Finally Harry spoke, causing 
Hermione to gasp and jump. 
Are you Bathilda? 
The muffled figure nodde
d and beckoned again. Beneath the Cloak Ha
rry and Hermione looked at each other. 
Harry raised his eyebrows; Hermione gave a tiny, nervous nod. 
BATHILDAS  SECRET 
 335  They stepped toward the woman 
and, at once, she turned and 
hobbled off back the way they had 
come. Leading them past several 
houses, she turned in at a gate. Th
ey followed her up the front path 
through a garden nearly as overgrown as the one they had just left. 
She fumbled for a moment with a key at the front door, then opened 
it and stepped back to let them pass. 
She smelled bad, or 
perhaps it was her ho
use: Harry wrinkled 
his nose as they sidled past her 
and pulled off the Cloak. Now that 
he was beside her, he realized how tiny she was; bowed down with 
age, she came barely level with hi
s chest. She closed the door behind 
them, her knuckles blue and mottled against the peeling paint, then 
turned and peered into Harrys face
. Her eyes were thick with cata-
racts and sunken into folds of transparent skin, and her whole face 
was dotted with broken veins and li
ver spots. He wondered whether 
she could make him out at all; even 
if she could, it was the balding 
Muggle whose identity he had 
stolen that she would see. 
The odor of old age, of dust, of
 unwashed clothes and stale food 
intensified as she unwound a moth-eaten black shawl, revealing a 
head of scant white hair through 
which the scalp showed clearly. 
Bathilda? Harry repeated. 

She nodded again. Har
ry became aware of th
e locket against his 
skin; the thing inside it that some
times ticked or beat had woken; 
he could feel it pulsing through th
e cold gold. Did it know, could 
it sense, that the thing that would destroy it was near? 
Bathilda shuffled past them, pu
shing Hermione aside as though 
she had not seen her, and vanished 
into what seemed 
to be a sitting 
room. Harry, Im not sure about this, breathed Hermione. 
Look at the size of her; I think we could overpower her if we had 
CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN 
 336  to, said Harry. Listen, I should 
have told you, I knew she wasnt 
all there. Muriel called her gaga. 
Come! called Bathilda from the next room. 
Hermione jumped and cl
utched Harrys arm. 
Its okay, said Harry reassuringly, and he led the way into the 
sitting room. 
Bathilda was tottering around th
e place lighting candles, but 
it was still very dark, not to ment
ion extremely dirty. Thick dust 
crunched beneath their feet, and 
Harrys nose detected, underneath 
the dank and mildewed smell, so
mething worse, like meat gone 
bad. He wondered when was the 
last time anyone had been inside 
Bathildas house to check whethe
r she was coping. She seemed to 
have forgotten that she could do ma
gic, too, for she lit the candles 
clumsily by hand, her trailing lace
 cuff in constant danger of catch-
ing fire. 
Let me do that, offered Harry, 
and he took the ma
tches from her. 
She stood watching him as he finished
 lighting the ca
ndle stubs that 
stood on saucers around the room, pe
rched precariously on stacks of 
books and on side tables crammed with cracked and moldy cups. 
The last surface on which Harry spotted a candle was a bow-
fronted chest of drawers on whic
h there stood a large number of 
photographs. When the flame danced 
into life, its reflection wavered 
on their dusty glass and silver. He
 saw a few tiny movements from 
the pictures. As Bathilda fumbled wi
th logs for the fire, he muttered 
Tergeo
: The dust vanished from th
e photographs, and he saw at 
once that half a dozen were missin
g from the largest and most or-
nate frames. He wondered whether 
Bathilda or some
body else had 
removed them. Then the sight of a photograph near the back of the 

collection caught his eye,
 and he snatched it up. 
BATHILDAS  SECRET 
 337  It was the golden-haired, merry-fa
ced thief, the young man who 
had perched on Gregorovitchs windowsill, smiling lazily up at Harry 

out of the silver frame. And it ca
me to Harry instantly where he had 
seen the boy before: in The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore,
 arm 
in arm with the teenage Dumbledor
e, and that must be where all 
the missing photographs were: in Ritas book. 
Mrs.  Miss  Bagshot? he said, and his voice shook slightly. 
Who is this? 
Bathilda was standing in the middle of the room watching Her-
mione light the fire for her. 
Miss Bagshot? Harry repeated, and he advanced with the picture 
in his hands as the flames burst into
 life in the fireplace. Bathilda 
looked up at his voice,
 and the Horcrux beat fa
ster upon his chest. 
Who is this person? Harry as
ked her, pushing the picture 
forward. 
She peered at it solemn
ly, then up at Harry. 
Do you know who this is? he repeated in a much slower and 
louder voice than usual. This ma
n? Do you know him? Whats he 
called? Bathilda merely looked vague. 
Harry felt an awful frustration. 
How had Rita Skeeter unlocked Bathildas memories? 
Who is this man? he repeated loudly. 
Harry, what are you doing? asked Hermione. 
This picture, Hermione, its the 
thief, the thief who stole from 
Gregorovitch! Please! he said 
to Bathilda. Who is this? 
But she only stared at him. 
Why did you ask us 
to come with you,
 Mrs.  Miss  Bag-
shot? asked Hermione, raising her own voice. Was there some-

thing you wanted to tell us? CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN 
 338  Giving no sign that she had heard Hermione, Bathilda now shuf-
fled a few steps closer to Harry. Wi
th a little jerk of her head she 
looked back into the hall. 
You want us to leave? he asked. 
She repeated the gesture, this time
 pointing firstly at him, then at 
herself, then at
 the ceiling. 
Oh, right . . . Hermione, I thin
k she wants me to go upstairs 
with her. All right, said He
rmione, lets go. But when Hermione moved, Bathil
da shook her head with sur-
prising vigor, once more pointing 
first at Harry, th
en to herself. 
She wants me to go with her, alone. 
Why? asked Hermione, and her voice rang out sharp and clear 
in the candlelit room; the old lady shook her head a little at the 
loud noise. 
Maybe Dumbledore told her to give the sword to me, and only 
to me? 
Do you really think sh
e knows who you are? Yes, said Harry, looking down in
to the milky eyes fixed upon 
his own, I think she does. 
Well, okay then, but be quick, Harry. 
Lead the way, Harr
y told Bathilda. 
She seemed to understand, becaus
e she shuffled around him to-
ward the door. Harry glanced back 
at Hermione with a reassuring 
smile, but he was not sure she ha
d seen it; she stood hugging herself 
in the midst of the candlelit squalor, looking toward the bookcase. 
As Harry walked out of the room
, unseen by both Hermione and 
Bathilda, he slipped the silver-f
ramed photograph of the unknown 
thief inside his jacket. 
BATHILDAS  SECRET 
 339  The stairs were steep and narrow
: Harry was half tempted to place 
his hands on stout Bathildas back
side to ensure that she did not 
topple over backward on top of hi
m, which seemed only too likely. 
Slowly, wheezing a little, she climbed to the upper landing, turned 
immediately right, and led him into a low-ceilinged bedroom. 
It was pitch-black and smelled ho
rrible: Harry had just made out 
a chamber pot protruding from under the bed before Bathilda closed 

the door and even that was swallowed by the darkness. 
Lumos, said Harry, and his wand ig
nited. He gave a start: 
Bathilda had moved close to him in
 those few seconds of darkness, 
and he had not heard her approach. 
You are Potter? she whispered. 
Yes, I am. 
She nodded slowly, solemnly. Harry felt the Horcrux beating fast, faster than his own heart: 
It was an unpleasant, agitating 
sensation. 
Have you got anything for me? Harry asked, but she seemed 
distracted by his lit wand-tip. 
Have you got anything for me? he repeated. 
Then she closed her eyes and several things happened at once: 
Harrys scar prickled painfully; th
e Horcrux twitched so that the 
front of his sweater actually move
d; the dark, fetid room dissolved 
momentarily. He felt a leap of joy 
and spoke in a high, cold voice: 
Hold him
! Harry swayed where he stood: The dark, foul-smelling room 
seemed to close around him again; he did not know what had just 
happened. Have you got anything for me? he asked for a third time, much 
louder. 
CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN 
 340  Over here, she whispered, pointi
ng to the corner. Harry raised 
his wand and saw the outline of a cluttered dressing table beneath 

the curtained window. This time she did not lead hi
m. Harry edged between her and 
the unmade bed, his wand raised. 
He did not want to look away 
from her. 
What is it? he asked as he reac
hed the dressing table, which was 
heaped high with what looked 
and smelled like dirty laundry. There, she said, pointing
 at the shapeless mass. 
And in the instant that he looked
 away, his eyes raking the tan-
gled mess for a sword hilt, a ruby, 
she moved weirdly: He saw it out 
of the corner of his eye; panic made him turn and horror paralyzed 
him as he saw the old body collapsing and the great snake pouring 
from the place where her neck had been. 
The snake struck as he raised his
 wand: The force of the bite to 
his forearm sent the wand spinning up toward the ceiling; its light 
swung dizzyingly around the room and was extinguished: Then a 
powerful blow from the tail to 
his midriff knocke
d the breath out 
of him: He fell backward onto th
e dressing table, into the mound 
of filthy clothing  He rolled sideways, narrowly av
oiding the snak
es tail, which 
thrashed down upon the table wher
e he had been a second earlier: 
Fragments of the glass surface rained upon him as he hit the floor. 

From below he heard Hermione call, Harry? 
He could not get enough breath into
 his lungs to call back: Then 
a heavy smooth mass smashed him to 
the floor and he felt it slide 
over him, powerful, muscular  
No! he gasped, pinned to the floor. 

Yes, whispered the voice. 
Yesss
 . . . hold you
 . . . hold you
 . . . BATHILDAS  SECRET 
 341  Accio . . . Accio Wand . . . But nothing happened and he needed 
his hands to try to force the 
snake from him as it coiled itself 
around his torso, squeezing the air 
from him, pressing the Horcrux hard 
into his chest, a circle of ice 
that throbbed with life, inches from his own frantic heart, and his 
brain was flooding with cold, white 
light, all thought obliterated, 
his own breath drowned, distant footsteps, ev
erything going. . . . 
A metal heart was banging outside 
his chest, and now he was fly-
ing, flying with triumph in his he
art, without need of broomstick 
or thestral. . . . He was abruptly awake in the so
ur-smelling darkness; Nagini had 
released him. He scrambled up an
d saw the snake outlined against 
the landing light: It struck, and 
Hermione dived aside with a shriek; 
her deflected curse hit the curtai
ned window, which shattered. Fro-
zen air filled the room as Harry du
cked to avoid another shower of 
broken glass and his foot slipped 
on a pencil-like something  his 
wand  He bent and snatched it up, bu
t now the room was full of the 
snake, its tail thrashing; Hermione
 was nowhere to be seen and for 
a moment Harry thought the worst, but then there was a loud bang 

and a flash of red light, and the sn
ake flew into the air, smacking 
Harry hard in the face as it went, 
coil after heavy coil rising up to 
the ceiling. Harry raised his wand, bu
t as he did so, his scar seared 
more painfully, more powerfully
 than it had 
done in years. Hes coming! Hermione, hes coming
! As he yelled the snake fell, hissing wildly. Everything was chaos: 
It smashed shelves from the wall, 
and splintered china flew every-
where as Harry jumped over the bed and seized the dark shape he 

knew to be Hermione  
CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN 
 342  She shrieked with pain as he pulled her back across the bed: The 
snake reared again, but Harry knew
 that worse than the snake was 
coming, was perhaps already at the 
gate, his head was going to split 
open with the pain from his scar  
The snake lunged as he took a running leap, dragging Hermione 
with him; as it struck, Hermione screamed, 
Confringo! and her spell 
flew around the room, exploding 
the wardrobe mirror and ricochet-
ing back at them, bouncing from fl
oor to ceiling; Harry felt the heat of it sear the back of his hand. Glass cut his cheek as, pulling Hermi-
one with him, he leapt from bed to
 broken dressing table and then 
straight out of the smashed window
 into nothingness, her scream 
reverberating through the night as they twisted in midair. . . . 
And then his scar burst open an
d he was Voldemort and he was 
running across the fetid bedroom, his long white hands clutching 
at the windowsill as he glimpsed 
the bald man and 
the little woman 
twist and vanish, and he screamed 
with rage, a scre
am that mingled 
with the girls, that echoed across 
the dark gardens over the church 
bells ringing in Ch
ristmas Day. . . . And his scream was Harrys scream, his pain was Harrys pain . . . 
that it could happen here, where it
 had happened before . . . here, 
within sight of that house where he had come so close to knowing 
what it was to die . . . to die. . . 
. The pain was so terrible . . . ripped 
from his body. . . . But 
if he had no body, why did his head hurt so 
badly; if he was dead, how could he
 feel so unbearably, didnt pain 
cease with death, di
dnt it go . . . 
The night wet and windy, two children dressed as pumpkins wad-
dling across the square, and the shop windows covered in paper spiders, 

all the tawdry Muggle trappings of a world in which they did not 

believe. . . . And he was gliding alon
g, that sense of purpose and power
 BATHILDAS  SECRET 
 343  and rightness in him that he always
 knew on these occasions. . . . Not 
anger . . . that was for weaker souls than he . . . but triumph, yes. . . . 

He had waited for this, he
 had hoped for it. . . . Nice costume, mister!
 He saw the small boys smile falter as he ran near enough to see be-
neath the hood of the cloak, saw th
e fear cloud his painted face: Then 
the child turned and ran away. . . . Beneath the robe he fingered the 

handle of his wand. . . . One simple movement and the child would 

never reach his mother . . . but unne
cessary, quite unnecessary. . . .
 And along a new and darker street he moved, and now his destina-
tion was in sight at last, the Fidelius Charm broken, though they did 
not know it yet. . . . And he made less noise than the dead leaves slith-
ering along the pavement as he drew level with the dark hedge, and 

stared over it. . . . They had not drawn the curtains; he saw them quite clearly in their 
little sitting room, the tall black-haire
d man in his glasses, making puffs 
of colored smoke erupt from his wa
nd for the amusement of the small 
black-haired boy in his blue pajama
s. The child was laughing and try-
ing to catch the smoke, to gr
ab it in his small fist. . . 
. A door opened and the mother entered, saying words he could not 
hear, her long dark-red hair falling 
over her face. Now the father scooped 
up the son and handed him to the mother. He threw his wand down 

upon the sofa and stretched, yawning. . . .
 The gate creaked a little as he pushed it open, but James Potter did 
not hear. His white hand pulled out the wand beneath his cloak and 
pointed it at the door, which burst open.
 He was over the threshold as James 
came sprinting into the hall. It 
was easy, too easy, he had not ev
en picked up his wand. . . .
 Lily, take Harry and go! Its hi
m! Go! Run! Ill hold him off!
 CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN 
 344  Hold him off, without a wand in his hand! . . . He laughed before 
casting the curse. . . . Avada Kedavra!
 The green light filled the cramped 
hallway, it lit the pram pushed 
against the wall, it made the banist
ers glare like lightning rods, and 
James Potter fell like a marionette whose strings were cut. . . .
 He could hear her screaming from the upper floor, trapped, but 
as long as she was sensible, she, at 
least, had nothing to fear. . . . He 
climbed the steps, listening with fa
int amusement to her attempts to 
barricade herself in. . . . She had no
 wand upon her either. . . . How 
stupid they were, and how trusting, 
thinking that their safety lay in 
friends, that weapons could be discarded even for moments. . . .
 He forced the door open, cast aside the chair and boxes hastily piled 
against it with one lazy wave of his wand . . . and there she stood, the 

child in her arms. At the sight of him, she dropped her son into the crib 

behind her and threw her arms wide, 
as if this would help, as if in 
shielding him from sight she hoped to be chosen instead. . . .
 Not Harry, not Harry, please not Harry!
 Stand aside, you silly girl . . . stand aside, now.
 Not Harry, please no, take me, kill me instead  This is my last warning 
 Not Harry! Please . . . have mercy 
. . . have mercy. . . . Not Harry! 
Not Harry! Please  Ill do anything  Stand aside. Stand aside, girl! He could have forced her away from the crib, but it seemed more 
prudent to finish them all. . . .
 The green light flashed around the room and she dropped like her 
husband. The child had not cried all this time: He could stand, clutch-

ing the bars of his crib, and he looked
 up into the intruders face with a
 BATHILDAS  SECRET 
 345  kind of bright interest, perhaps thinking that it was his father who hid 
beneath the cloak, making more pr
etty lights, and his mother would 
pop up any moment, laughing 
 He pointed the wand very carefully
 into the boys face: He wanted 
to see it happen, the destruction of 
this one, inexplicable danger. The 
child began to cry: It ha
d seen that he was not James. He did not like 
it crying, he had never been able to
 stomach the small ones whining in 
the orphanage 
 Avada Kedavra! And then he broke: He was nothing, nothing but pain and ter-
ror, and he must hide himself, no
t here in the rubble of the ruined 
house, where the child 
was trapped and screamin
g, but far away . . . 
far away. . . .
 No, he moaned. 
The snake rustled on the filthy, cluttered floor, and he had killed the 
boy, and yet he 
was 
the boy. . . . No . . . 
And now he stood at the broken window of Bathildas house, im-
mersed in memories of his greatest loss, and at his feet the great snake 

slithered over broken china and glass. . . . He looked down and saw 

something . . . something incredible. . . .
 No . . . Harry, its all right, youre all right! 
He stooped down and picked up the smashed photograph. There he 
was, the unknown thief, the thief he was seeking. . . .
 No . . . I dropped it. . 
. . I dropped it. . . . 
Harry, its okay, wake up, wake up! He was Harry. . . . Harry, not Vo
ldemort . . . and the thing that was rustling was not a snake.
 . . . He opened his eyes. CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN 
 346  Harry, Hermione whispered. 
Do you feel all  all right? Yes, he lied. 

He was in the tent, lying on one 
of the lower bunks beneath a heap 
of blankets. He could tell that it was almost dawn by the stillness and 
the quality of the cold, flat light 
beyond the canvas ceiling. He was 
drenched in sweat; he could feel
 it on the sheets and blankets. 
We got away. 

Yes, said Hermione. I had to
 use a Hover Charm to get you 
into your bunk, I couldnt lift you.
 Youve been . . 
. Well, you havent been quite . . . There were purple shadows under her brown eyes and he noticed 
a small sponge in her hand: Sh
e had been wiping his face. Youve been ill, she 
finished. Quite ill. How long ago did we leave? Hours ago. Its nearly morning. 
And Ive been . . . what, unconscious? Not exactly, said Hermione uncomfortably. Youve been shout-
ing and moaning and . . . things,
 she added in a tone that made 
Harry feel uneasy. What had he done?
 Screamed curses like Volde-
mort, cried like the baby in the crib? 
I couldnt get the Horcrux off yo
u, Hermione said, and he knew 
she wanted to change the subject. I
t was stuck, stuck to your chest. 
Youve got a mark; Im sorry, I had 
to use a Severing Charm to get 
it away. The snake bit you too, bu
t Ive cleaned the wound and put 
some dittany on it. . . . 
He pulled the sweaty T-shirt he was wearing away from himself 
and looked down. There 
was a scarlet oval over his heart where the 
locket had burned him. He could al
so see the half-healed puncture 
marks to his forearm. 
BATHILDAS  SECRET 
 347  Whereve you put the Horcrux? 
In my bag. I think we should
 keep it off for a while. 
He lay back on his 
pillows and looked in
to her pinched gray 
face. We shouldnt have gone to Godrics Hollow. Its my fault, its all 
my fault, Hermione, Im sorry. 
Its not your fault. I wanted to 
go too; I really thought Dumble-
dore might have left the sword there for you. 
Yeah, well . . . we got 
that wrong, didnt we? What happened, Harry? What happened when she took you 
upstairs? Was the snake hiding somewhere? Did it just come out 
and kill her and attack you? 
No, he said. 
She was the snake . . . or the snake was her . . . 
all along. W-what? 

He closed his eyes. He could sti
ll smell Bathildas house on him: 
It made the whole t
hing horribly vivid. 
Bathilda mustve been dead a while. The snake was . . . was in-
side her. You-Know-Who put it th
ere in Godrics Hollow, to wait. 
You were right. He knew Id go back. 
The snake was 
inside
 her? He opened his eyes again: Hermione looked revolted, 
nauseated. 
Lupin said there would be magi
c wed never imagined, Harry 
said. She didnt want to talk 
in front of you, because it was 
Parseltongue, all Parseltongue, and I 
didnt realize, but of course I 
could understand her. Once we were
 up in the room, the snake sent 
a message to You-Know-Who, I hear
d it happen inside my head, I 
felt him get excited, he said to k
eep me there . . . and then . . . CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN 
 348  He remembered the snake coming our of Bathildas neck: Hermi-
one did not need to know the details. . . . she changed, changed into the snake, and attacked. He looked down at the puncture marks. 
It wasnt supposed to kill me, just keep me there till You-Know-
Who came. If he had only managed to kill 
the snake, it would have been 
worth it, all of it. . . 
. Sick at heart, he sat up and threw back the 
covers. 
Harry, no, Im sure you ought to rest! 
Youre the one who needs sleep. No
 offense, but you look terrible. 
Im fine. Ill keep watch for 
a while. Wheres my wand? 
She did not answer, she merely looked at him. 
Wheres my wand, Hermione? 
She was biting her lip, an
d tears swam in her eyes. 
Harry . . . Wheres my wand
? She reached down beside the bed and held it out to him. 
The holly and phoenix wand was nearly severed in two. One frag-
ile strand of phoenix feather kept 
both pieces hanging together. The 
wood had splintered apart completely. Harry took it into his hands 
as though it was a livi
ng thing that had suffer
ed a terrible injury. 
He could not think properly: Everything was a blur of panic and 

fear. Then he held out 
the wand to Hermione. Mend it. Please. 
Harry, I dont think, when its broken like this  
Please, Hermione, try! 
R-Reparo.
 The dangling half of the wand re
sealed itself. Harry held it up. 
BATHILDAS  SECRET 
 349  Lumos
! The wand sparked feebly, then w
ent out. Harry pointed it at 
Hermione. 
Expelliarmus! Hermiones wand gave a little jerk, but did not leave her hand. 
The feeble attempt at magic was 
too much for Harrys wand, which 
split into two again. He stared at 
it, aghast, unable to take in what 
he was seeing . . . the wand that had survived 
so much . . . Harry, Hermione whispered so quietly he could hardly hear her. 
Im so, so sorry. I think it was me
. As we were leaving, you know, 
the snake was coming for us, and so 
I cast a Blasting Curse, and it 
rebounded everywhere, and it mu
st have  must
 have hit  It was an accident, said Ha
rry mechanically. He felt empty, 
stunned. Well  well find a way to repair it. 
Harry, I dont think were going to be able to, said Hermione, 
the tears trickling down her face. 
Remember . . . remember Ron? 
When he broke his wand, crashing 
the car? It was never the same 
again, he had to get a new one. Harry thought of Ollivander, ki
dnapped and held hostage by 
Voldemort; of Gregorovitch, wh
o was dead. How was he supposed 
to find himself a new wand? 
Well, he said, in a falsely matter
-of-fact voice, well, Ill just 
borrow yours for now, th
en. While I keep watch. 
Her face glazed with tears, He
rmione handed over her wand, 
and he left her sitting beside his 
bed, desiring nothing more than 
to get away from her. 
C H A P T E R  E I G H T E E N   350  THE LIFE AND LIES OF 
ALBUS DUMBLEDORE 
 he sun was coming up: The pure, colorless vastness of the 
sky stretched over him, indifferent to him and his suffering. 
Harry sat down in the tent entrance 
and took a deep breath of clean 
air. Simply to be alive to watch th
e sun rise over the sparkling snowy 
hillside ought to have 
been the greatest treasure on earth, yet he 
could not appreciate it: His senses
 had been spiked by the calamity 
of losing his wand. He looked out 
over a valley blanketed in snow, 
distant church bells 
chiming through the glittering silence. 
Without realizing it, he was digging 
his fingers into his arms as if 
he were trying to resist physical
 pain. He had spilled his own blood 
more times than he could count; 
he had lost all the bones in his 
right arm once; this journey had already given him scars to his chest 
and forearm to join those on his hand and forehead, but never, until 
this moment, had he felt himself to
 be fatally weakened, vulnerable, 
and naked, as though the best pa
rt of his magical power had been 
torn from him. He knew exactly what Hermione would say if he 
T THE  LIFE  AND  LIES  OF ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE  351  expressed any of this: The wand is only as good as the wizard. But 
she was wrong, his case was different
. She had not felt the wand spin 
like the needle of a compass and 
shoot golden flames at his enemy. 
He had lost the protection of the twin cores, and only now that it 
was gone did he realize how much he had been counting upon it. 
He pulled the pieces of the brok
en wand out of his pocket and, 
without looking at them, tucked them away in Hagrids pouch 

around his neck. The pouch was no
w too full of broken and use-
less objects to take any more. Harr
ys hand brushed the old Snitch 
through the mokeskin and for a mo
ment he had to fight the temp-
tation to pull it out and throw it away. Impenetrable, unhelpful, 
useless, like everything else
 Dumbledore had left behind  
And his fury at Dumbledore broke over him now like lava, 
scorching him inside, wiping out 
every other feeling. Out of sheer 
desperation they had talked themselv
es into believing that Godrics 
Hollow held answers, convinced themselves that they were supposed 
to go back, that it was all part of some secret path laid out for them 
by Dumbledore; but there was no map, no plan. Dumbledore had 
left them to grope in the darknes
s, to wrestle with unknown and 
undreamed-of terrors, alone and 
unaided: Nothing was explained, 
nothing was given freely, they ha
d no sword, and now, Harry had 
no wand. And he had dropped the ph
otograph of the thief, and it 
would surely be easy now for Voldem
ort to find out wh
o he was. . . . 
Voldemort had all the information now. . . . 
Harry? Hermione looked frightened that he might curse her with her 
own wand. Her face streaked with tears, she crouched down beside 
him, two cups of tea trembling in
 her hands and something bulky 
under her arm. 
CHAPTER  EIGHTEEN  352  Thanks, he said, taking one of the cups. 
Do you mind if I talk to you? 

No, he said because he did not want to hurt her feelings. 
Harry, you wanted to know who that man in the picture was. 
Well . . . Ive got the book. 
Timidly she pushed it onto 
his lap, a pristine copy of 
The Life and 
Lies of Albus Dumbledore.
 Where  how  ? 
It was in Bathildas sitting room, 
just lying there. . . . This note 
was sticking out of the top of it. 
Hermione read the few lines of sp
iky, acid-green writing aloud. Dear Batty, Thanks for your help. Heres a copy of the book, hope 
you like it. You said everything, ev
en if you dont remember it. Rita.
 I think it must have arrived while 
the real Bathilda was alive, but 
perhaps she wasnt in any 
fit state to read it? 
No, she probably wasnt. 
Harry looked down upon Dumbledores face and experienced a 
surge of savage pleasure: Now he 
would know all the things that 
Dumbledore had never thought it worth telling him, whether Dum-

bledore wanted him to or not. 
Youre still really angry at me
, arent you? said Hermione; he 
looked up to see fresh tears leakin
g out of her eyes, and knew that 
his anger must have 
shown in his face. No, he said quietly. No, Hermione, I know it was an accident. 
You were trying to get us out of th
ere alive, and you were incredible. 
Id be dead if you hadnt been there to help me. 
He tried to return her watery sm
ile, then turned 
his attention to 
the book. Its spine was stiff; it had clearly never been opened before. He riffled through the pages, l
ooking for photographs. He came 
THE  LIFE  AND  LIES  OF ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE  353  across the one he sought almost
 at once, the young Dumbledore 
and his handsome companion, roaring with laughter at some long-

forgotten joke. Harry dropped his eyes to the caption. 
Albus Dumbledore, shortly after his mothers death, 
with his friend Gellert Grindelwald. Harry gaped at the last word for 
several long moments. Grindel-
wald. His friend Grindelwald. He
 looked sideways at Hermione, 
who was still contemplating the name as though she could not be-
lieve her eyes. Slowly she looked up at Harry. 
Grindelwald? Ignoring the remainder of the 
photographs, Harry searched the 
pages around them for a recurrence 
of that fatal name. He soon dis-
covered it and read greedily, but be
came lost: It was necessary to go 
further back to make sense of it a
ll, and eventually he found himself 
at the start of a chapter entitled 
The Greater Good. Together, he 
and Hermione started to read: 
Now approaching his eighteenth birthday, Dumbledore left 
Hogwarts in a blaze of glory 
 Head Boy, Prefect, Winner 
of the Barnabus Finkley Prize 
for Exceptional Spell-Casting, 
British Youth Representative to the Wizengamot, Gold Medal-

Winner for Ground-Breaking Cont
ribution to the International 
Alchemical Conference in Cairo. Dumbledore intended, next, 
to take a Grand Tour with 
Elphias Dogbreath Doge, the 
dim-witted but devoted sidekick 
he had picked up at school. 
The two young men were stayin
g at the Leaky Cauldron in 
London, preparing to depart fo
r Greece the following morning, 
when an owl arrived bearing news of Dumbledores mothers 
CHAPTER  EIGHTEEN  354  death. Dogbreath Doge, who r
efused to be interviewed for 
this book, has given the public 
his own sentimental version of 
what happened next. He represents Kendras death as a tragic 
blow, and Dumbledores decision to
 give up his expedition as 
an act of noble self-sacrifice. Certainly Dumbledore returned to Godrics Hollow at once, 
supposedly to care for his yo
unger brother and sister. But how much care did he 
actually give them? He were a head case, that Aberforth, says Enid Smeek, 
whose family lived on the outskirt
s of Godrics Hollow at that 
time. Ran wild. Course, wi
th his mum and dad gone youd 
have felt sorry for him, only he kept chucking goat dung at my 
head. I dont think Albus was fussed about him, I never saw 
them together, anyway. So what was Albus doing, if not comforting his wild young 
brother? The answer, it seems, 
is ensuring the continued im-
prisonment of his sister. For, th
ough her first jailer had died, 
there was no change in the piti
ful condition of Ariana Dumble-
dore. Her very existence continued to be known only to those 
few outsiders who, like Dogbr
eath Doge, could be counted 
upon to believe in the st
ory of her ill health. Another such easily satisfie
d friend of the family was 
Bathilda Bagshot, the celebrat
ed magical historian who has 
lived in Godrics Hollow for many years. Kendra, of course, 
had rebuffed Bathilda when she first attempted to welcome the 
family to the village. Several ye
ars later, however, the author 
sent an owl to Albus at Hogwar
ts, having been favorably im-
pressed by his paper on trans-species transformation in 
Trans-figuration Today.
 This initial contact led to acquaintance with 
THE  LIFE  AND  LIES  OF ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE  355  the entire Dumbledore family. At the time of Kendras death, 
Bathilda was the only person in
 Godrics Hollow who was on 
speaking terms with Dumbledores mother. 
Unfortunately, the brilliance th
at Bathilda exhibited earlier 
in her life has now dimmed. The 
fires lit, but the cauldrons 
empty, as Ivor Dillonsby put it
 to me, or, in Enid Smeeks 
slightly earthier phrase, Shes nutty as squirrel poo. Never-

theless, a combination of tried-and-tested reporting techniques 
enabled me to extrac
t enough nuggets of hard fact to string 
together the whole scandalous story. 
Like the rest of the Wizarding world, Bathilda puts Kendras 
premature death down to a backfi
ring charm, a story repeated 
by Albus and Aberforth in later ye
ars. Bathilda also parrots the 
family line on Ariana, calling 
her frail and delicate. On one subject, however, Bathilda
 is well worth the effort I put 
into procuring Veritaserum, for she, and she alone, knows the 
full story of the best-kept secret of Albus Dumbledores life. 
Now revealed for the first time, it
 calls into question everything 
that his admirers believed of Dumbledore: his supposed hatred 
of the Dark Arts, his opposition to the oppression of Muggles, 

even his devotion 
to his own family. 
The very same summer that Dumbledore went home to 
Godrics Hollow, now an orph
an and head of the family, 
Bathilda Bagshot agreed to ac
cept into her home her great-
nephew, Gellert Grindelwald. The name of Grindelwald is just
ly famous: In a list of Most 
Dangerous Dark Wizards of All 
Time, he would miss out on 
the top spot only because You-Know-Who arrived, a genera-

tion later, to steal his crown.
 As Grindelwald never extended 
CHAPTER  EIGHTEEN  356  his campaign of terror to Britai
n, however, the details of his 
rise to power are not widely known here. 
Educated at Durmstrang, a sch
ool famous even then for its 
unfortunate tolerance of the Dark Arts, Grindelwald showed 
himself quite as precociously brilliant as Dumbledore. Rather 
than channel his abilities into the attainment of awards and 
prizes, however, Gellert Grindelwald devoted himself to other 

pursuits. At sixteen years old, ev
en Durmstrang felt it could no 
longer turn a blind eye to the twisted experiments of Gellert 
Grindelwald, and he was expelled. Hitherto, all that has been 
known of Grindelwalds next 
movements is that he traveled ab
road for some months. It can 
now be revealed that Grindelwal
d chose to visit his great-aunt 
in Godrics Hollow, and that there, intensely shocking though 
it will be for many to hear it, 
he struck up a close friendship 
with none other than
 Albus Dumbledore. 
He seemed a charming boy 
to me, babbles Bathilda, 
whatever he became later. Naturally I introduced him to poor 
Albus, who was missing the comp
any of lads his own age. The 
boys took to each other at once. 
They certainly did. Bathilda sh
ows me a letter, kept by her, 
that Albus Dumbledore sent Gellert Grindelwald in the dead 
of night. Yes, even after theyd spent all day in discussion  both 
such brilliant young boys, they got on like a cauldron on 
fire  Id sometimes hear an owl tapping at Gellerts bedroom 
window, delivering a letter from
 Albus! An idea would have 
struck him, and he 
had to let Gellert know immediately! And what ideas they were. Pr
ofoundly shocking though 
THE  LIFE  AND  LIES  OF ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE  357  Albus Dumbledores fans will find it, here are the thoughts of 
their seventeen-year-old hero, as 
relayed to his new best friend. (A copy of the orig
inal letter may be seen on page 463.) 
Gellert 
 Your point about Wizard dominance being 
FOR 
THE MUGGLES OWN GOOD
  this, I think, is the cru-
cial point. Yes, we have 
been given power and yes, 
that power gives us the right to rule, but it also gives 

us responsibilities over the ruled. We must stress this 

point, it will be the foundation stone upon which we 

build. Where we are opposed,
 as we surely will be, 
this must be the basis of all our counterarguments. We 
seize control 
FOR THE GREATER GOOD
. And from this 
it follows that where we m
eet resistance, we must use 
only the force that is necessary and no more. (This was 

your mistake at Durmstrang! But I do not complain, 
because if you had not been expelled, we would never 
have met.)
 Albus Astonished and appa
lled though his many admirers will 
be, this letter constitutes proof
 that Albus Dumbledore once 
dreamed of overthrowing the St
atute of Secrecy and establish-
ing Wizard rule over Muggles. What a blow for those who have 
always portrayed Dumbledore as
 the Muggle-borns greatest 
champion! How hollow those speeches promoting Muggle 
rights seem in the light of 
this damning new evidence! How 
despicable does Albus Dumbledor
e appear, busy plotting his 
CHAPTER  EIGHTEEN  358  rise to power when he should 
have been mourning his mother 
and caring for his sister! 
No doubt those determined 
to keep Dumbledore on his 
crumbling pedestal will bleat that
 he did not, after all, put 
his plans into action, that he must have suffered a change of 
heart, that he came to his s
enses. However, the truth seems 
altogether more shocking. 
Barely two months into their great new friendship, Dum-
bledore and Grindelwald parted, never to see each other again 
until they met for their legendar
y duel (for more, see chapter 
22). What caused this abrupt rupture? 
Had Dumbledore come 
to his senses? Had he told Grinde
lwald he wanted no more part 
in his plans? Alas, no. 
It was poor little Ariana dying,
 I think, that did it, says 
Bathilda. It came as an awful 
shock. Gellert was there in the 
house when it happened, and he ca
me back to my house all of 
a dither, told me he wanted to 
go home the next day. Terribly 
distressed, you know. So I arra
nged a Portkey and that was 
the last I saw of him. 
Albus was beside himself at Ar
ianas death. It was so dread-
ful for those two brothers. They had lost everybody except 
each other. No wonder temper
s ran a little high. Aberforth 
blamed Albus, you know, as people will under these dread-

ful circumstances. But Aberforth always talked a little madly, 
poor boy. All the same, breaking Albuss nose at the funeral 
was not decent. It would have de
stroyed Kendra to see her sons 
fighting like that, across her 
daughters body. A shame Gellert 
could not have stayed for the fu
neral. . . . He would have been 
a comfort to Albus, 
at least. . . . THE  LIFE  AND  LIES  OF ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE  359  This dreadful coffin-side braw
l, known only to those few 
who attended Ariana Dumbledores funeral, raises several ques-

tions. Why exactly did Aberforth Dumbledore blame Albus 
for his sisters death? Was it, 
as Batty pretends, a mere effu-
sion of grief? Or could there 
have been some 
more concrete 
reason for his fury? Grindelwald, expelled from Durmstrang 
for near-fatal attacks upon fello
w students, fled the country 
hours after the girls death, an
d Albus (out of shame or fear?) 
never saw him again, not until forced to do so by the pleas of 
the Wizarding world. Neither Dumbledore nor Grindelwald ever seems to have 
referred to this brief boyhood 
friendship in later life. How-
ever, there can be no doubt that Dumbledore delayed, for 
some five years of turmoil, fatalities, and disappearances, his 
attack upon Gellert Grindelwald. Was it lingering affection 

for the man or fear of exposure as his once best friend that 
caused Dumbledore to hesitate? Was it only reluctantly that 
Dumbledore set out to capture the man he was once so de-
lighted he had met? 
And how did the mysterious Ar
iana die? Was she the in-
advertent victim of some Dark
 rite? Did she stumble across 
something she ought not to have
 done, as the two young men 
sat practicing for their attempt 
at glory and domination? Is it 
possible that Ariana Dumbledore was the first person to die 
for the greater good? 
 The chapter ended here and Ha
rry looked up. Hermione had 
reached the bottom of the page 
before him. She tugged the book 
out of Harrys hands, 
looking a little alarmed by his expression, 
CHAPTER  EIGHTEEN  360  and closed it without 
looking at it, as though hiding something 
indecent. 
Harry  But he shook his head. Some inner certainty had crashed down 
inside him; it was exactly as he
 had felt after Ron left. He had 
trusted Dumbledore, believed hi
m the embodiment of goodness 
and wisdom. All was ashes: How mu
ch more could he lose? Ron, 
Dumbledore, the phoenix wand . . . 
Harry. She seemed to have he
ard his thoughts. Listen to me. 
It  it doesnt make very nice reading  
Yeah, you could say that  
 but dont forget, Harry, th
is is Rita Skeeter writing. 
You did read that letter to Grindelwald, didnt you? 
Yes, I  I did. She hesitated, 
looking upset, cradling her tea 
in her cold hands. I think thats the worst bit. I know Bathilda 

thought it was all just talk, bu
t For the Greater Good became 
Grindelwalds slogan, his justificat
ion for all the atrocities he com-
mitted later. And . . . from that 
. . . it looks like Dumbledore gave 
him the idea. They say For the Greater Good was even carved over 
the entrance to Nurmengard. 
Whats Nurmengard? 
The prison Grindelwald had buil
t to hold his opponents. He 
ended up in there himself, once
 Dumbledore had caught him. Any-
way, its  its an awful thought that Dumbledores ideas helped 
Grindelwald rise to power. But on the other hand, even Rita cant 
pretend that they knew each other for more than a few months one 
summer when they were bo
th really young, and  
I thought youd say that, said 
Harry. He did not want to let his 
anger spill out at her, but it was 
hard to keep his voice steady. I 
THE  LIFE  AND  LIES  OF ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE  361  thought youd say They were young. They were the same age as we 
are now. And here we are, risking 
our lives to fight the Dark Arts, 
and there he was, in a huddle with his new best friend, plotting their 
rise to power over the Muggles. 
His temper would not remain in
 check much longer: He stood 
up and walked around, trying to work 
some of it off. 
Im not trying to defend what
 Dumbledore wrote, said Hermi-
one. All that right to rule rubbis
h, its Magic Is Might all over 
again. But Harry, his mo
ther had just died, he
 was stuck alone in 
the house  Alone? He wasnt alone! He ha
d his brother and sister for com-
pany, his Squib sister he was keeping locked up  
I dont believe it, said Hermio
ne. She stood up too. Whatever 
was wrong with that girl, I dont
 think she was a 
Squib. The Dum-
bledore we knew would neve
r, ever have allowed  
The Dumbledore we thought we 
knew didnt want to conquer 
Muggles by force! Harry shouted,
 his voice echoing across the 
empty hilltop, and seve
ral blackbirds rose into the air, squawking 
and spiraling against the pearly sky. 
He changed, Harry, he changed! It
s as simple as
 that! Maybe he 
did believe these things when he was seventeen, but the whole of the 
rest of his life was devoted to fi
ghting the Dark Arts! Dumbledore 
was the one who stopped Grindelwald, the one who always voted for 

Muggle protection and Muggle-born rights, who fought You-Know-
Who from the start, 
and who died trying to bring him down! 
Ritas book lay on the ground be
tween them, so that the face of 
Albus Dumbledore smiled
 dolefully at both. 
Harry, Im sorry, but I think the real reason youre so angry is 
that Dumbledore never told you any of this himself. 
CHAPTER  EIGHTEEN  362  Maybe I am! Harry bellowed, and he flung his arms over his 
head, hardly knowing whether he was 
trying to hold in his anger or 
protect himself from the weight of
 his own disillusionment. Look 
what he asked from me, Hermio
ne! Risk your life, Harry! And 
again! And again! And 
dont expect me to ex
plain everything, just 
trust me blindly, trust that I know what Im doing, trust me even 
though I dont trust you! Never the whole truth! Never! 
His voice cracked with the strain
, and they stood looking at each 
other in the whiteness and the empt
iness, and Harry felt they were 
as insignificant as insect
s beneath that wide sky. 
He loved you, Hermione whispered. I know he loved you. Harry dropped his arms. 
I dont know who he loved, Hermione, but it was never me. This 
isnt love, the mess hes left me in
. He shared a damn sight more of 
what he was really thinking with Gellert Grindelwald than he ever 

shared with me. Harry picked up Hermiones wand, which he had dropped in the 
snow, and sat back down in the entrance of the tent. Thanks for the tea. Ill finish the watch. You get back in the 
warm. She hesitated, but recognized th
e dismissal. She picked up the 
book and then walked ba
ck past him into the 
tent, but as she did 
so, she brushed the top of his head 
lightly with her hand. He closed 
his eyes at her touch, and hated 
himself for wishing that what she 
said was true: that Dumble
dore had really cared. C H A P T E R  N I N E T E E N   363  THE SILVER DOE 
   t was snowing by the time Hermione took over the watch 
at midnight. Harrys dreams we
re confused and disturbing: 
Nagini wove in and out of them, 
first through a gigantic, cracked 
ring, then through a wreath of Christmas roses. He woke repeat-
edly, panicky, convinced that some
body had called out to him in 
the distance, imagining 
that the wind whippi
ng around the tent 
was footsteps or voices. 
Finally he got up in the darkne
ss and joined Hermione, who was 
huddled in the entrance to the tent reading 
A History of Magic
 by the 
light of her wand. The snow was sti
ll falling thickly, and she greeted 
with relief his suggestion of pa
cking up early and moving on. 
Well go somewhere more sheltered, she agreed, shivering as she 
pulled on a sweatshirt over her pajamas. I kept thinking I could 

hear people moving outside. I ev
en thought I saw somebody once 
or twice.  I CHAPTER  NINETEEN  364  Harry paused in the act of pulling
 on a jumper and glanced at 
the silent, motionless Snea
koscope on the table. 
Im sure I imagined it, said
 Hermione, looking nervous. The 
snow in the dark, it plays tricks 
on your eyes. . . . But perhaps we 
ought to Disapparate under the Invi
sibility Cloak, just in case? 
Half an hour later, with the tent packed, Harry wearing the Hor-
crux, and Hermione clutching the 
beaded bag, they Disapparated. 
The usual tightness engulfed th
em; Harrys feet parted company 
with the snowy ground, then slamme
d hard onto what felt like 
frozen earth covered with leaves. 
Where are we? he asked, peer
ing around at a 
fresh mass of 
trees as Hermione opened the be
aded bag and began tugging out 
tent poles. 
The Forest of Dean, she said. 
I came camping here once with 
my mum and dad. 
Here too snow lay on the trees all 
around and it was bitterly cold, 
but they were at least protected 
from the wind. They spent most 
of the day inside the 
tent, huddled for warmth around the useful 
bright blue flames that Hermione
 was so adept at producing, and 
which could be scooped up and carr
ied around in a jar. Harry felt 
as though he was recuperating from some brief but severe illness, an 
impression reinforced by Hermione
s solicitousness. That afternoon 
fresh flakes drifted down upon th
em, so that even their sheltered 
clearing had a fresh dusting of powdery snow. 
After two nights of little sleep, 
Harrys senses seemed more alert 
than usual. Their escape from 
Godrics Hollow had been so narrow 
that Voldemort seemed somehow cl
oser than before, more threaten-
ing. As darkness drew in again Harry refused Hermiones offer to 

keep watch and told her to go to bed. 
THE  SILVER  DOE  365  Harry moved an old cushion into 
the tent mouth and sat down, 
wearing all the sweaters he owned but even so, still shivery. The dark-

ness deepened with the passing ho
urs until it was virtually impen-
etrable. He was on the point of taki
ng out the Marauders Map, so as 
to watch Ginnys dot for a while, b
efore he remembered that it was 
the Christmas holidays and that sh
e would be back at the Burrow. 
Every tiny movement seemed ma
gnified in the vastness of the 
forest. Harry knew that it must be 
full of living creatures, but he 
wished they would all remain still and silent so that he could sepa-
rate their innocent sc
urryings and prowlings from noises that might 
proclaim other, sinister movements. He remembered the sound of 
a cloak slithering over dead leaves many years ago, and at once 
thought he heard it again before
 mentally shaking himself. Their 
protective enchantments had work
ed for weeks; why should they 
break now? And yet he could not 
throw off the feeling that some-
thing was different tonight. 
Several times he jerked upright,
 his neck aching because he had 
fallen asleep, slumped at an awkwar
d angle against the side of the 
tent. The night reached such a dept
h of velvety blackness that he 
might have been suspended in li
mbo between Disapparition and 
Apparition. He had just held up a hand in front of his face to see 
whether he could make out hi
s fingers when it happened. 
A bright silver light appeared righ
t ahead of him, moving through 
the trees. Whatever the source, it 
was moving soundlessly. The light 
seemed simply to drift toward him. 
He jumped to his feet, his voice 
frozen in his throat, and raised 
Hermiones wand. He screwed up his eyes as the light became blind-
ing, the trees in front of it pitc
h-black in silhouette, and still the 
thing came closer. . . . CHAPTER  NINETEEN  366  And then the source of the li
ght stepped out from behind an 
oak. It was a silver-white doe, 
moon-bright and dazzling, picking 
her way over the ground, still silent, and leaving no hoofprints in 
the fine powdering of snow. She st
epped toward him, her beautiful 
head with its wide, long
-lashed eyes held high. 
Harry stared at the creature, fi
lled with wonder, not at her 
strangeness, but at her inexplicable 
familiarity. He felt that he had 
been waiting for her to come, but th
at he had forgotten, until this 
moment, that they had arranged to
 meet. His impulse to shout for 
Hermione, which had been so strong
 a moment ago, had gone. He 
knew, he would have staked his li
fe on it, that she had come for 
him, and him alone. They gazed at each other for se
veral long moments and then she 
turned and walked away. 
No, he said, and his voice was cracked with lack of use. Come 
back! She continued to step deliberately
 through the trees, and soon her 
brightness was striped by their thic
k black trunks. For one trembling second he hesitated. Caution murmur
ed it could be a trick, a lure, 
a trap. But instinct, overwhelming instinct, told him that this was 

not Dark Magic. He set off in pursuit. 
Snow crunched beneath his feet, 
but the doe made no noise as 
she passed through the trees, for she was nothing but light. Deeper 

and deeper into the forest she 
led him, and Harry walked quickly, 
sure that when she stopped, she 
would allow him to
 approach her 
properly. And then she would spea
k and the voice would tell him 
what he needed to know. 
At last, she came to a halt. She turned her beautiful head toward  
 THE  SILVER  DOE  367  him once more, and he broke into a run, a question burning in him, 
but as he opened his lips
 to ask it, she vanished. 
Though the darkness had swallo
wed her whole, her burnished 
image was still imprinted on his retinas; it obscured his vision, 
brightening when he lowered his 
eyelids, disorienting him. Now 
fear came: Her presence had meant safety. 
Lumos
! he whispered, and the wand-tip ignited. 
The imprint of the doe faded away 
with every blink of his eyes as 
he stood there, listening to the sounds of the forest, to distant crack-
les of twigs, soft swishes of snow
. Was he about to be attacked? Had 
she enticed him into an ambush? 
Was he imagining that somebody 
stood beyond the reach of the wandlight, watching him? He held the wand higher. Nobody
 ran out at him, no flash of 
green light burst from behind a tr
ee. Why, then, had she led him 
to this spot? 
Something gleamed in the ligh
t of the wand, and Harry spun 
about, but all that was there was 
a small, frozen pool, its cracked 
black surface glittering as he raised the wand higher to examine it. 
He moved forward rather cautiously and looked down. The ice 
reflected his distorted 
shadow and the beam of
 wandlight, but deep 
below the thick, misty gray carapace
, something else glinted. A great 
silver cross . . . His heart skipped into his mouth: 
He dropped to his knees at the 
pools edge and angled the wand so as to flood the bottom of the 
pool with as much light as possible.
 A glint of deep red . . . It was a 
sword with glittering rubies in its 
hilt. . . . The sword of Gryffindor 
was lying at the bottom
 of the forest pool. Barely breathing, he stared down at it. How was this possible?   CHAPTER  NINETEEN  368  How could it have come to be lying 
in a forest pool, this close to the 
place where they were camping?
 Had some unknown magic drawn 
Hermione to this spot, or was th
e doe, which he had taken to be a 
Patronus, some kind of guardian of the pool? Or had the sword been 
put into the pool after they had a
rrived, precisely because they were 
here? In which case, where was the person who had wanted to pass 
it to Harry? Again he directed th
e wand at the surrounding trees 
and bushes, searching for a human outline, for the glint of an eye, 
but he could not see anyone there. 
All the same, a little more fear 
leavened his exhilaration as he re
turned his attention to the sword 
reposing upon the botto
m of the frozen pool. 
He pointed the wand at the silvery shape and murmured, 
Accio Sword. It did not stir. He had not expected
 it to. If it had been that easy, 
the sword would have la
in on the ground for 
him to pick up, not 
in the depths of a frozen pool. He 
set off around the circle of ice, 
thinking hard about the last time 
the sword had delivered itself to 
him. He had been in terrible dang
er then, and had asked for help. 
Help, he murmured, but the sw
ord remained upon the pool 
bottom, indifferent, motionless. 
What was it, Harry asked himself 
(walking again), that Dumble-
dore had told him the last time
 he had retrieved the sword? 
Only a 
true Gryffindor could have pulled
 that 
out of the hat.
 And what were the 
qualities that defined a Gryffindor? 
A small voice inside Harrys head 
answered him: 
Their daring, nerve, and chivalry set Gryffindors apart. Harry stopped walking and let out a long sigh, his smoky breath 
dispersing rapidly upon the frozen ai
r. He knew what he had to do. 
If he was honest with himself, he ha
d thought it might come to this 
from the moment he had spotte
d the sword through the ice. 
THE  SILVER  DOE  369  He glanced around at the surroun
ding trees again, but was con-
vinced now that nobody was going to
 attack him. They had had their 
chance as he walked alone through 
the forest, had had plenty of oppor-
tunity as he examined the pool. The 
only reason to delay at this point 
was because the immediate prospe
ct was so deeply uninviting. 
With fumbling fingers Harry star
ted to remove his many layers 
of clothing. Where chivalry entered
 into this, he thought ruefully, 
he was not entirely sure, unless it counted as chivalrous that he was 
not calling for Hermione to
 do it in his stead. 
An owl hooted somewhere as he 
stripped off, and he thought 
with a pang of Hedwig. He was shivering now, his teeth chatter-
ing horribly, and yet he continued to
 strip off until at last he stood 
there in his underwear, barefooted in the snow. He placed the pouch 
containing his wand, his mothers le
tter, the shard of Siriuss mirror, 
and the old Snitch on top of his clothes, then he pointed Hermiones 

wand at the ice. Diffindo. It cracked with a sound like a bu
llet in the silence: The surface 
of the pool broke and chunks of dark ice rocked on the ruffled wa-
ter. As far as Harry could judge, it
 was not deep, but to retrieve the 
sword he would have to submerge himself completely. 
Contemplating the task ahead would not make it easier or the 
water warmer. He stepped to the p
ools edge and placed Hermiones 
wand on the ground, still lit. Then, trying not to imagine how much 
colder he was about to become or how violently he would soon be 
shivering, he jumped. Every pore of his body screamed 
in protest: The very air in his 
lungs seemed to freeze solid as 
he was submerged 
to his shoulders 
in the frozen water. He could hardly breathe; trembling so violently 
CHAPTER  NINETEEN  370  the water lapped over the edges of th
e pool, he felt for the blade with 
his numb feet. He only 
wanted to dive once. 
Harry put off the moment of tota
l submersion from second to 
second, gasping and shaking, until he
 told himself that it must be 
done, gathered all his 
courage, and dived. The cold was agony: It attacked 
him like fire. His brain itself 
seemed to have frozen as he push
ed through the dark water to the 
bottom and reached out, groping fo
r the sword. His fingers closed 
around the hilt; he pulled it upward. 
Then something closed tight around his neck. He thought of wa-
ter weeds, though nothing had brushed him as he dived, and raised 
his empty hand to free himself. It was not weed: The chain of the 
Horcrux had tightened and was slow
ly constricting his windpipe. Harry kicked out wildly, trying to
 push himself back to the sur-
face, but merely propelled himself 
into the rocky side of the pool. 
Thrashing, suffocating, he scrabble
d at the strangling chain, his 
frozen fingers unable to loosen it
, and now little lights were pop-
ping inside his head, and he was 
going to drown, there was nothing 
left, nothing he could do, and the ar
ms that closed around his chest 
were surely Deaths. . . . Choking and retching, soaking and colder than he had ever been 
in his life, he came to facedown 
in the snow. Somewhere close by, 
another person was panting and 
coughing and staggering around. 
Hermione had come again, as 
she had come when the snake at-
tacked. . . . Yet it did not sound like
 her, not with those deep coughs, 
not judging by the weight 
of the footsteps. . . . 
Harry had no strength to lift his he
ad and see his saviors identity. 
All he could do was raise a shaking 
hand to his throat and feel the 
place where the locket had cut tigh
tly into his flesh. It was gone: 
THE  SILVER  DOE  371  Someone had cut him free. Then a 
panting voice spoke from over 
his head. 
Are  you  
mental? Nothing but the shock of hearing that voice could have given 
Harry the strength to get up. Shiv
ering violently, he staggered to 
his feet. There before him stood Ro
n, fully dressed but drenched 
to the skin, his hair plastered to 
his face, the sword of Gryffindor 
in one hand and the Horcrux dangling from its broken chain in 
the other. Why the 
hell, panted Ron, holding up the Horcrux, which 
swung backward and forward on its shortened chain in some parody 
of hypnosis, didnt you take this thing off before you dived? 
Harry could not answer. The silver doe was nothing, nothing 
compared with Rons reappearance
; he could not believe it. Shud-
dering with cold, he caught up the 
pile of clothes still lying at the 
waters edge and began to pull them
 on. As he dragged sweater after 
sweater over his head, Harry stared at Ron, half expecting him to 
have disappeared every time he lost
 sight of him, and yet he had to 
be real: He had just dived into 
the pool, he had saved Harrys life. 
It was y-you? Harry said at last
, his teeth chattering, his voice 
weaker than usual due to his near-strangulation. 
Well, yeah, said Ron, looking slightly confused. 
Y-you cast that doe? 

What? No, of course not! I 
thought it was you doing it! 
My Patronus is a stag. Oh yeah. I thought it looked different. No antlers. 
Harry put Hagrids pouc
h back around his 
neck, pulled on a 
final sweater, stooped to pick up
 Hermiones wand, and faced Ron 
again. CHAPTER  NINETEEN  372  How come youre here? 
Apparently Ron had hoped that this point would come up later, 
if at all. Well, Ive  you know  Ive come back. If  He cleared his throat. You know. Yo
u still want me. 
There was a pause, in which the subject of Rons departure seemed 
to rise like a wall between them. 
Yet he was here. He had returned. 
He had just saved Harrys life. 
Ron looked down at his hands. 
He seemed momentarily surprised 
to see the things he was holding. 
Oh yeah, I got it out, he said, rather unnecessarily, holding up 
the sword for Harrys inspection. Thats why you jumped in, 
right? Yeah, said Harry. But I dont
 understand. How did you get 
here? How did you find us? Long story, said Ron. Ive been 
looking for you for hours, its 
a big forest, isnt it? And I was just
 thinking Id have to kip under a 
tree and wait for morning when I saw that deer coming and you 
following. 
You didnt see anyone else? 

No, said Ron. I  
But he hesitated, glancing at two trees growing close together 
some yards away. 
I did think I saw something move
 over there, but I was running 
to the pool at the time, because 
youd gone in and you hadnt come 
up, so I wasnt going to make a detour to  hey! 
Harry was already hurrying to th
e place Ron had indicated. The 
two oaks grew close together; there was a gap of only a few inches 

between the trunks at eye level, an 
ideal place to see but not be seen. THE  SILVER  DOE  373  The ground around the roots, however, was free of snow, and Harry 
could see no sign of footprints. He walked back to where Ron stood 

waiting, still holding th
e sword and the Horcrux. Anything there? Ron asked. 
No, said Harry. 
So how did the sword get in that pool? 
Whoever cast the Patronus 
must have put it there. 
They both looked at the ornate si
lver sword, its rubied hilt glint-
ing a little in the light 
from Hermiones wand. 
You reckon this is th
e real one? asked Ron. 
One way to find out, is
nt there? said Harry. 
The Horcrux was still swinging 
from Rons hand. The locket 
was twitching slightly. Harry knew 
that the thing inside it was 
agitated again. It had sensed the presence of the sword and had 
tried to kill Harry rather than 
let him possess it. Now was not 
the time for long discussions; no
w was the moment to destroy the 
locket once and for all. Harry l
ooked around, holding Hermiones 
wand high, and saw the place: a fl
attish rock lying in the shadow 
of a sycamore tree. Come here, he said, and he led the way, brushed snow from the 
rocks surface, and held out hi
s hand for the Horcrux. When Ron 
offered the sword, however, Harry shook his head. 
No, you should do it. 
Me? said Ron, looking shocked. Why? 
Because you got the sword out of
 the pool. I think its supposed 
to be you. 
He was not being kind or generous. As certainly as he had known that the doe was benign, he knew 
that Ron had to be the one to 
wield the sword. Dumbledore had 
at least taught Harry something 
CHAPTER  NINETEEN  374  about certain kinds of magic, of 
the incalculable power of certain 
acts. 
Im going to open it, said Harry, and you stab it. Straightaway, 
okay? Because whatevers in there 
will put up a fight. The bit of 
Riddle in the diary tried to kill me. How are you going to open it? as
ked Ron. He looked terrified. 
Im going to ask it to open, usin
g Parseltongue, said Harry. The 
answer came so readily to his lips that he thought that he had always 
known it deep down: Perhaps it had taken his recent encounter with 
Nagini to make him realize it
. He looked at the serpentine 
S, inlaid 
with glittering green stones: It was easy to visualize it as a minuscule 
snake, curled upon the cold rock. 
No! said Ron. No, dont open it! Im serious! 
Why not? asked Harry. Lets get rid of the damn thing, its 
been months  I cant, Harry, Im se
rious  you do it  
But why? 
Because that things bad for me!
 said Ron, backing away from 
the locket on the rock. I cant handle it! Im not making excuses, 
Harry, for what I was like, but it 
affects me worse than it affected 
you and Hermione, it made me t
hink stuff  stuff I was thinking 
anyway, but it made everything wors
e, I cant explain it, and then 
Id take it off and Id get my head
 on straight again, and then Id 
have to put the effing thing ba
ck on  I can
t do it, Harry! He had backed away, the sword dr
agging at his side, shaking his 
head. 
You can do it, said Harry, you 
can! Youve just got the sword, 
I know its supposed to be you wh
o uses it. Please, 
just get rid of 
it, Ron. 
THE  SILVER  DOE  375  The sound of his name seemed to 
act like a stimulant. Ron swal-
lowed, then, still breathing hard through his long nose, moved back 

toward the rock. 
Tell me when, he croaked. 
On three, said Harry, looking ba
ck down at the locket and nar-
rowing his eyes, concentrating on the letter 
S, imagining a serpent, 
while the contents of the locket rattl
ed like a trapped cockroach. It 
would have been easy to pity it, 
except that the cut around Harrys 
neck still burned. 
One . . . two . . . three . . . open.
 The last word came as a hiss an
d a snarl and the golden doors of 
the locket swung wide with a little click. Behind both of the glass windows 
within blinked a living eye, 
dark and handsome as Tom Riddles eyes had been before he turned them scarlet and slit-pupiled. 
Stab, said Harry, holding the locket steady on the rock. 
Ron raised the sword in his sh
aking hands: The point dangled 
over the frantically swiveling ey
es, and Harry gripped the locket tightly, bracing himself, alread
y imagining blood pouring from the 
empty windows. 
Then a voice hissed from out of the Horcrux. 
I have seen your hear
t, and it is mine.
 Dont listen to it! Harry 
said harshly. Stab it! 
I have seen your dreams, Ronald Weas
ley, and I have seen your fears. 
All you desire is possible, but all 
that you dread is also possible. 
. . . Stab! shouted Harry; his voice echoed off the surrounding 
trees, the sword point trembled, and Ron gazed down into Riddles 
eyes. 
Least loved, always, by the mother who craved a daughter
 . . . 
Least CHAPTER  NINETEEN  376  loved, now, by the girl who prefers your friend
 . . . 
Second best, always, 
eternally overshadowed
 . . . Ron, stab it now! Harry bellow
ed: He could feel the locket 
quivering in his grip and was sc
ared of what was coming. Ron 
raised the sword still higher, and as
 he did so, Riddles eyes gleamed 
scarlet. Out of the lockets two windows, 
out of the eyes, there bloomed, 
like two grotesque bubbles, th
e heads of Harry and Hermione, 
weirdly distorted. 
Ron yelled in shock and backed away as the figures blossomed out 
of the locket, first chests, then waists, then legs, until they stood in 
the locket, side by side like trees
 with a common root, swaying over 
Ron and the real Harry, who had 
snatched his fingers away from 
the locket as it burned, suddenly, white-hot. 
Ron! he shouted, but the Ri
ddle-Harry was now speaking with 
Voldemorts voice and Ron was gazi
ng, mesmerized, into its face. 
Why return? We were better without you, happier without you, 
glad of your absence.
 . . . 
We laughed at your stupidity, your cowardice, 
your presumption  
Presumption
! echoed the Riddle-Hermione, who was more 
beautiful and yet more terrible than the real Hermione: She swayed, 
cackling, before Ron, who looked 
horrified yet transfixed, the sword 
hanging pointlessly at his side. 
Who could look at you, who would 
ever look at you, beside Harry Po
tter? What have you ever done, com-
pared with the Chosen One? What are you, compared with the Boy 

Who Lived? Ron, stab it, STAB IT! Harr
y yelled, but Ron did not move: 
His eyes were wide, and the Riddle-Harry and the Riddle-Hermione  

 THE  SILVER  DOE  377  were reflected in them, their hair 
swirling like flames, their eyes 
shining red, their voices lifted in an evil duet. 
Your mother confessed,
 sneered Riddle-Harry, while Riddle-
Hermione jeered, 
that she would have preferred me as a son, would 
be glad to exchange . . . Who wouldnt prefer him, what woman would take you, you are 
nothing, nothing, nothing to him,
 crooned Riddle-Hermione, and 
she stretched like a snake and 
entwined herself around Riddle-
Harry, wrapping him in a clos
e embrace: Their lips met. 
On the ground in front of them, Rons face filled with anguish. 
He raised the sword high, his arms shaking. 
Do it, Ron! Harry yelled. 
Ron looked toward him, and Ha
rry thought he saw a trace of 
scarlet in his eyes. 
Ron  ? 

The sword flashed, plunged: Harry 
threw himself out of the way, 
there was a clang of metal and 
a long, drawn-out scream. Harry whirled around, slipping in the 
snow, wand held ready to defend 
himself: but there was nothing to fight. 
The monstrous versions of himself and Hermione were gone: 
There was only Ron, standing ther
e with the sword held slackly in 
his hand, looking down at the shat
tered remains of the locket on 
the flat rock. Slowly, Harry walked back to hi
m, hardly knowing what to say 
or do. Ron was breathing heavily: 
His eyes were no longer red at 
all, but their normal blue
; they were also wet. Harry stooped, pretending he had not seen, and picked up the 
broken Horcrux. Ron had pierced 
the glass in both windows:  
 CHAPTER  NINETEEN  378  Riddles eyes were gone
, and the stained silk lining of the locket 
was smoking slightly. The thing that had lived in the Horcrux had 
vanished; torturing Ron had been its final act. 
The sword clanged as Ron dropped 
it. He had sunk to his knees, 
his head in his arms. He was shak
ing, but not, Harry realized, from 
cold. Harry crammed the broken lock
et into his pocket, knelt down 
beside Ron, and placed a hand caut
iously on his shoulder. He took 
it as a good sign that Ron did not throw it off. After you left, he said in a low 
voice, grateful for the fact that 
Rons face was hidden, she cried 
for a week. Probably longer, only 
she didnt want me to see. There we
re loads of nights when we never 
even spoke to each other.
 With you gone . . . 
He could not finish; it was only 
now that Ron was here again that 
Harry fully realized how much
 his absence had cost them. 
Shes like my sister, he went on
. I love her like a sister and I 
reckon she feels the same way about 
me. Its always been like that. 
I thought you knew. Ron did not respond, but turned 
his face away from Harry and 
wiped his nose noisily on his slee
ve. Harry got to his feet again and 
walked to where Rons enormous ru
cksack lay yards away, discarded 
as Ron had run toward the pool to
 save Harry from drowning. He 
hoisted it onto his own back and 
walked back to Ron, who clam-
bered to his feet as Harry approached, eyes bloodshot but otherwise 

composed. 
Im sorry, he said in a thick vo
ice. Im sorry I left. I know I 
was a  a  He looked around at the darkness, as if hoping a bad enough 
word would swoop down upon him and claim him. 
 THE  SILVER  DOE  379  Youve sort of made up for it 
tonight, said Harry. Getting the 
sword. Finishing off the Ho
rcrux. Saving my life. 
That makes me sound a lot cool
er than I was,
 Ron mumbled. 
Stuff like that always sounds cooler than it really was, said 
Harry. Ive been trying to
 tell you that for years. 
Simultaneously they walked forward and hugged, Harry gripping 
the still-sopping back of Rons jacket. 
And now, said Harry as they br
oke apart, all weve got to do 
is find the tent again. But it was not difficult. Though th
e walk through the dark forest 
with the doe had seemed lengthy, 
with Ron by his side the journey 
back seemed to take a surprising
ly short time. Harry could not wait 
to wake Hermione, and 
it was with quickening
 excitement that he 
entered the tent, Ron lagg
ing a little behind him. 
It was gloriously warm after th
e pool and the forest, the only 
illumination the bluebell flames still shimmering in a bowl on the 
floor. Hermione was fast asleep, cu
rled up under her blankets, and 
did not move until Harry had said her name several times. 
Hermione
! She stirred, then sat up quickly, pushing her hair out of her face. 

Whats wrong? Harry? Are you all right? 
Its okay, everythings fine. More
 than fine. Im great. Theres 
someone here. 
What do you mean? Who  ? 
She saw Ron, who stood there holding the sword and dripping onto 
the threadbare carpet. Harry backed
 into a shadowy corner, slipped 
off Rons rucksack, and attempted to blend in with the canvas. 
Hermione slid out of her bunk 
and moved like a sleepwalker   CHAPTER  NINETEEN  380  toward Ron, her eyes upon his pale face. She stopped right in front 
of him, her lips slightly parted, her eyes wide. Ron gave a weak, 

hopeful smile and half
 raised his arms. Hermione launched herself forward and started punching every 
inch of him that she could reach. 
Ouch  ow  gerroff! What 
the  ? Hermione  OW! 
You  complete  
arse
  Ronald  Weasley! 
She punctuated every word with 
a blow: Ron backed away, shield-
ing his head as Hermione advanced. 
You  crawl  back  here  after  weeks  and  
weeks  oh, 
wheres my wand
? She looked as though ready to wr
estle it out of Harrys hands and 
he reacted instinctively. 
Protego
! The invisible shield erupted 
between Ron and Hermione: The 
force of it knocked her backward 
onto the floor. Sp
itting hair out 
of her mouth, she leapt up again. Hermione! said Harry. Calm  
I will not calm down! she scre
amed. Never before had he seen 
her lose control like this; she look
ed quite demented. Give me back 
my wand! 
Give it back to me
! Hermione, will you please  
Dont you tell me what to do,
 Harry Potter! she screeched. 
Dont you dare! Give it back now! And YOU! 
She was pointing at Ron in dire 
accusation: It was like a maledic-
tion, and Harry could not blame Ron for retreating several steps. 
I came running after you! I ca
lled you! I begged you to come 
back! I know, Ron said, Hermione, Im sorry, Im really  
THE  SILVER  DOE  381  Oh, youre 
sorry
! She laughed, a high-pitched, out-of-control sound; Ron looked at 
Harry for help, but Harry merely
 grimaced his 
helplessness. You come back after weeks  
weeks  and you think its all 
going to be all right if you just say 
sorry? Well, what else can I say? Ro
n shouted, and Harry was glad 
that Ron was fighting back. Oh, I dont know! yelled Hermione with awful sarcasm. Rack 
your brains, Ron, that should on
ly take a couple of seconds  
Hermione, interjected Harry, wh
o considered this a low blow, 
he just saved my  I dont care! she screamed. I 
dont care what hes done! Weeks 
and weeks, we could have been 
dead
 for all he knew  
I knew you werent dead! bell
owed Ron, drowning her voice 
for the first time, and approaching as close as he could with the 
Shield Charm between them. Harrys all over the 
Prophet,
 all over 
the radio, theyre looking for you everywhere, all these rumors and 
mental stories, I knew Id hear st
raight off if you were dead, you 
dont know what its been like  
What its been like for 
you? Her voice was now so shrill only 
bats would be ab
le to hear it 
soon, but she had reached a level of indignation that rendered her 
temporarily speechless, and Ro
n seized his opportunity. 
I wanted to come back the 
minute Id Disapparated, but I 
walked straight into a gang of Sn
atchers, Hermione, and I couldnt 
go anywhere! 
A gang of what? asked Harry, 
as Hermione threw herself down 
into a chair with her arms and legs
 crossed so tightly it seemed un-
likely that she would unravel them for several years. 
CHAPTER  NINETEEN  382  Snatchers, said Ron. Theyre
 everywhere  gangs trying to 
earn gold by rounding up Muggle-borns and blood traitors, theres 

a reward from the Ministry for ev
eryone captured. I was on my 
own and I look like I might be sch
ool age; they got really excited, 
thought I was a Muggle-born in hiding. I had to talk fast to get out 
of being dragged to the Ministry. 
What did you say to them? 

Told them I was Stan Shunpike. First person I could think 
of. And they believed that? 

They werent the brightest. One of 
them was definitely part troll, 
the smell off him. . . . 
Ron glanced at Hermione, clearly 
hopeful she might soften at this 
small instance of humor, but her 
expression remained stony above 
her tightly knotted limbs. 
Anyway, they had a row about whet
her I was Stan or not. It was 
a bit pathetic to be honest, but ther
e were still five of them and only 
one of me and theyd taken my wand. Then two of them got into a 
fight and while the others were di
stracted I managed to hit the one 
holding me in the stomach, grabbed his wand, Disarmed the bloke 

holding mine, and Disapparated. I 
didnt do it so 
well, Splinched 
myself again  Ron held up his right hand to show two missing 
fingernails; Hermione raised her 
eyebrows coldly  and I came 
out miles from where you were. By th
e time I got back to that bit of 
riverbank where wed be
en . . . youd gone. 
Gosh, what a gripping story, 
Hermione said in the lofty voice 
she adopted when wishing to wound. You must have been simply 
terrified. Meanwhile we went to Go
drics Hollow and, lets think,   THE  SILVER  DOE  383  what happened there, Harry? Oh yes, You-Know-Whos snake 
turned up, it nearly killed both of us, and then You-Know-Who 

himself arrived and missed us by about a second. 
What? Ron said, gaping from
 her to Harry, but Hermione 
ignored him. Imagine losing fingernails, Harry! 
That really puts our sufferings 
into perspective,
 doesnt it? Hermione, said Harry quietly,
 Ron just saved my life. 
She appeared not to have heard him. 
One thing I would like to know, though, she said, fixing her 
eyes on a spot a foot over Ron
s head. How exactly did you find 
us tonight? Thats important. Once
 we know, well be able to make 
sure were not visited by anyone
 else we dont want to see. 
Ron glared at her, then
 pulled a small silver 
object from his jeans 
pocket. This. 
She had to look at Ron to see what he was showing them. 
The Deluminator? she asked, so surprised she forgot to look 
cold and fierce. 
It doesnt just turn the lights 
on and off, said Ron. I dont 
know how it works or why it 
happened then and not any other 
time, because Ive been wanting to 
come back ever since I left. But 
I was listening to the radio really early on Christmas morning and 

I heard . . . I heard you. 
He was looking at Hermione. 
You heard me on the radio? she asked incredulously. No, I heard you coming out of my
 pocket. Your voice, he held 
up the Deluminator again,
 came out of this.  CHAPTER  NINETEEN  384  And what exactly did I say? 
asked Hermione, her tone some-
where between skepticism and curiosity. 
My name. Ron. And you sa
id . . . something about a 
wand. . . . Hermione turned a fiery shade of scarlet. Harry remembered: It 
had been the first time 
Rons name had been said aloud by either of 
them since the day he had left
; Hermione had mentioned it when 
talking about repairing Harrys wand. 
So I took it out, Ron went on
, looking at the Deluminator, and 
it didnt seem different or anything, but I was sure Id heard you. So 

I clicked it. And the light went out in my room, but another light 
appeared right outs
ide the window. 
Ron raised his empty hand and pointed in front of him, his eyes 
focused on something neither Ha
rry nor Hermione could see. It was a ball of light, kind of pulsing, and bluish, like that light 
you get around a Portkey, you know? 
Yeah, said Harry and Hermione together automatically. 
I knew this was it, said Ron. 
I grabbed my stuff and packed it, 
then I put on my rucksack and went out into the garden. 
The little ball of light was hove
ring there, waiting for me, and 
when I came out it bobbed along 
a bit and I followed it behind the 
shed and then it . . . well, it went inside me. 
Sorry? said Harry, sure 
he had not heard correctly. 
It sort of floated toward me, 
said Ron, illustrating the move-
ment with his free index finger, r
ight to my chest, and then  it 
just went straight through. It wa
s here, he touched a point close 
to his heart, I could feel it, it was hot. And once it was inside me 
I knew what I was supposed to do, 
I knew it would take me where  
 THE  SILVER  DOE  385  I needed to go. So I Disapparated and came out on the side of a hill. 
There was snow everywhere. . . . 
We were there, said Harry. We spent two nights there, and the 
second night I kept thinking I co
uld hear someone moving around 
in the dark and calling out! 
Yeah, well, that wouldve been me, said Ron. Your protective 
spells work, anyway, because I coul
dnt see you and I couldnt hear 
you. I was sure you were around, though, so in the end I got in my 
sleeping bag and waited for one of
 you to appear. I thought youd 
have to show yourselves when
 you packed up the tent. 
No, actually, said Hermione. Weve been Disapparating under 
the Invisibility Cloak as an extra pr
ecaution. And we left really early, 
because, as Harry says, wed hear
d somebody blundering around. 
Well, I stayed on that hill all da
y, said Ron. I kept hoping youd 
appear. But when it started to get 
dark I knew I must have missed 
you, so I clicked the Deluminator again, the blue light came out 
and went inside me, and I Disappar
ated and arrived here in these 
woods. I still couldnt see you, so I 
just had to hope one of you would 
show yourselves in the end  an
d Harry did. Well, I saw the doe 
first, obviously. 
You saw the what? sa
id Hermione sharply. 
They explained what had happened, 
and as the story of the silver 
doe and the sword in the pool unfolded, Hermione frowned from 

one to the other of them, concentrat
ing so hard she forgot to keep 
her limbs locked together. 
But it must have been a Patron
us! she said. Couldnt you see 
who was casting it? Didnt you see anyone? And it led you to the 
sword! I cant believe this
! Then what happened? 
 CHAPTER  NINETEEN  386  Ron explained how he had watc
hed Harry jump into the pool 
and had waited for him to resurface;
 how he had realized that some-
thing was wrong, dived in, and sa
ved Harry, then returned for the 
sword. He got as far as the opening
 of the locket, then hesitated, 
and Harry cut in. 
 and Ron stabbed it
 with the sword. And . . . and it went? Just like that? she whispered. Well, it  it screamed, said 
Harry with half a glance at Ron. 
Here. 
He threw the locket into her lap;
 gingerly she picked it up and 
examined its punctured windows. 
Deciding that it was at last safe to do so, Harry removed the Shield 
Charm with a wave of Hermiones wand and turned to Ron. 
Did you just say you got away 
from the Snatchers with a spare 
wand? 
What? said Ron, who had been watching Hermione examining 
the locket. Oh  oh yeah. 
He tugged open a buckle on his 
rucksack and pulled a short, 
dark wand out of its pocket. Here.
 I figured its always handy to 
have a backup. 
You were right, said Harry, 
holding out his hand. Mines 
broken. 
Youre kidding? Ron said, but at that moment Hermione got 
to her feet, and he look
ed apprehensive again. 
Hermione put the vanquished Ho
rcrux into the beaded bag, 
then climbed back into her bed and settled down without another 
word. Ron passed Harry the new wand. 

About the best you could hope 
for, I think, mu
rmured Harry. 
THE  SILVER  DOE  387  Yeah, said Ron. Couldve been
 worse. Remember those birds 
she set on me? 
I still havent ruled it out, ca
me Hermiones muffled voice from 
beneath her blankets, but Harry saw Ron smiling slightly as he 
pulled his maroon pajama
s out of his rucksack. 
C H A P T E R  T W E N T Y   388  XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD 
   arry had not expected Hermio
nes anger to abate over-
night, and was therefore unsurprised that she com-
municated mainly by 
dirty looks and pointed silences the next 
morning. Ron responded by maintaining an unnaturally somber 
demeanor in her presence as an 
outward sign of 
continuing re-
morse. In fact, when all three of them were together Harry felt 
like the only non-mourner at a 
poorly attended funeral. During 
those few moments he spent alone with Harry, however (collect-

ing water and searching the undergrowth for mushrooms), Ron 
became shamelessly cheery. 
Someone helped us, he kept 
saying. Someone sent that doe. 
Someones on our side. One Horcrux down, mate! 
Bolstered by the destruction of the locket, they set to debating 
the possible locations of the other 
Horcruxes, and even though they 
had discussed the matter so often before, Harry felt optimistic, cer-
tain that more breakthroughs wo
uld succeed the first. Hermiones 
H XENOPHILIUS  LOVEGOOD  389  sulkiness could not mar his buoyant spirits: The sudden upswing in 
their fortunes, the appearance of 
the mysterious doe, the recovery 
of Gryffindors sword, and above 
all, Rons return, made Harry so 
happy that it was quite difficult
 to maintain a straight face. 
Late in the afternoon he and 
Ron escaped Hermiones baleful 
presence again, and under the pretens
e of scouring the bare hedges 
for nonexistent blackberries, they 
continued their ongoing exchange of news. Harry had finally managed to tell Ron the whole story of 
his and Hermiones various wanderin
gs, right up to the full story 
of what had happened at Godric
s Hollow; Ron was now filling 
Harry in on everything he had disc
overed about the wider Wizard-
ing world during his weeks away. 
. . . and how did you find out 
about the Taboo? he asked Harry 
after explaining the many desperate attempts of Muggle-borns to 
evade the Ministry. 
The what? 
You and Hermione have stop
ped saying You-Know-Whos 
name! Oh, yeah. Well, its just a bad habit weve slipped into, said 
Harry. But I havent got 
a problem calling him V  NO! roared Ron, causing Harry to jump into the hedge and 
Hermione (nose buried in a book 
at the tent entr
ance) to scowl 
over at them. Sorry, said Ron,
 wrenching Harry back out of the 
brambles, but the names been ji
nxed, Harry, thats how they track 
people! Using his name breaks prot
ective enchantments, it causes 
some kind of magical disturbance 
 its how they found us in Tot-
tenham Court Road! 
Because we used his 
name? Exactly! Youve got to give them
 credit, it makes sense. It was 
CHAPTER  TWENTY  390  only people who were serious about standing up to him, like Dum-
bledore, who ever dared use it. Now theyve put a Taboo on it, any-

one who says it is trackable  qu
ick-and-easy way to find Order 
members! They nearly got Kingsley  
Youre kidding? 
Yeah, a bunch of Death Eaters cornered him, Bill said, but he 
fought his way out. Hes on the run 
now, just like us. Ron scratched 
his chin thoughtfully with the end
 of his wand. You dont reckon 
Kingsley could have sent that doe? 
His Patronus is a lynx, we saw 
it at the wedding, remember? 
Oh yeah . . . They moved farther along the he
dge, away from the tent and 
Hermione. 
Harry . . . you dont reckon it
 couldve been Dumbledore? 
Dumbledore what? 

Ron looked a little embarrassed, 
but said in a low voice, Dum-
bledore . . . the doe? I mean, 
Ron was watching Harry out of the 
corners of his eyes, he had the 
real sword last
, didnt he? Harry did not laugh at
 Ron, because he un
derstood too well the 
longing behind the question. Th
e idea that Dumbledore had man-
aged to come back to them, that he was watching over them, would 
have been inexpressibly comf
orting. He shook his head. Dumbledores dead, he said. I
 saw it happen, I saw the body. 
Hes definitely gone. Anyway, his Patronus was a phoenix, not a 
doe. Patronuses can change, though, ca
nt they? said Ron. Tonkss 
changed, didnt it? Yeah, but if Dumbledore was aliv
e, why wouldnt he show him-
self? Why wouldnt he ju
st hand us the sword? XENOPHILIUS  LOVEGOOD  391  Search me, said Ron. Same reason
 he didnt give it to you while 
he was alive? Same reason he left
 you an old Snitch and Hermione 
a book of kids stories? 
Which is what? aske
d Harry, turning to look Ron full in the 
face, desperate for the answer. 
I dunno, said Ron. 
Sometimes Ive thought, when Ive been 
a bit hacked off, he was having a 
laugh or  or he 
just wanted to 
make it more difficult. But I dont
 think so, not anymore. He knew 
what he was doing when he gave 
me the Deluminator, didnt he? 
He  well, Rons ears turned bright red and he became engrossed 

in a tuft of grass at his feet, which he prodded with his toe, he 
mustve known Id run out on you. No, Harry corrected him. He 
mustve known youd always want to come back. 
Ron looked grateful, but still awkw
ard. Partly to change the sub-
ject, Harry said, Speaking of Du
mbledore, have you heard what 
Skeeter wrote about him? 
Oh yeah, said Ron at once, p
eople are talking about it quite 
a lot. Course, if things were di
fferent, itd be huge news, Dumble-
dore being pals with Grindelwald, 
but now its just something to 
laugh about for people who didnt 
like Dumbledore, and a bit of a 
slap in the face for everyone who 
thought he was such a good bloke. 
I dont know that its such a big 
deal, though. He was really young 
when they  Our age, said Harry, just as 
he had retorted to Hermione, and 
something in his face seemed to 
decide Ron against pursuing the 
subject. A large spider sat in the middle of a frosted web in the brambles. 
Harry took aim at it with the wand
 Ron had given him the previous 
CHAPTER  TWENTY  392  night, which Hermione had since condescended to examine, and 
had decided was made of blackthorn. 
Engorgio.
 The spider gave a little shiver, bo
uncing slightly in the web. Harry 
tried again. This time the spider grew slightly larger. 
Stop that, said Ron sharply. Im sorry I said Dumbledore was 
young, okay? 
Harry had forgotten Ron
s hatred of spiders. 
Sorry  
Reducio. The spider did not shrink. Harry 
looked down at the blackthorn 
wand. Every minor spell he had cast
 with it so far that day had 
seemed less powerful than those 
he had produced with his phoenix 
wand. The new one felt intrusively 
unfamiliar, like having somebody 
elses hand sewn to the end of his arm. 
You just need to practice, sa
id Hermione, who had approached 
them noiselessly from behind an
d had stood watching anxiously as Harry tried to enlarge and reduce 
the spider. Its all a matter of confidence, Harry. 
He knew why she wanted it to be 
all right: She still felt guilty 
about breaking his wand. He bit back
 the retort that sprang to his 
lips, that she could take the blackt
horn wand if she thought it made 
no difference, and he wo
uld have hers instead. Keen for them all 
to be friends again, however, he
 agreed; but when Ron gave Hermi-
one a tentative smile, she stalked off and vanished behind her book 
once more. 
All three of them returned to the tent when darkness fell, and 
Harry took first watch. Sitting in
 the entrance, he tried to make 
the blackthorn wand levitate small 
stones at his feet; but his magic 
still seemed clumsier and less po
werful than it had done before. 
XENOPHILIUS  LOVEGOOD  393  Hermione was lying on her bunk reading, while Ron, after many 
nervous glances up at her, had 
taken a small wooden wireless out of his rucksack and star
ted to try and tune it. 
Theres this one program, he 
told Harry in a low voice, that 
tells the news like it really is. All the others are on You-Know-Whos 
side and are following the Ministry line, but this one . . . you wait 
till you hear it, its great. Only they cant do it every night, they have 

to keep changing locations in case theyre raided, and you need a 
password to tune in. . . . Trouble is
, I missed the la
st one. . . . 
He drummed lightly on the top of
 the radio with his wand, mut-
tering random words under his 
breath. He threw Hermione many 
covert glances, plainly fearing an 
angry outburst, but for all the no-
tice she took of him he might no
t have been there.
 For ten minutes 
or so Ron tapped and muttered, Hermione turned the pages of her 
book, and Harry continued to practice with the blackthorn wand. 
Finally Hermione climbed down from her bunk. Ron ceased his 
tapping at once. If its annoying you, Ill stop
! he told Hermione nervously. 
Hermione did not deign to re
spond, but approached Harry. 
We need to talk, she said. 

He looked at the book still 
clutched in her hand. It was 
The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore.
 What? he said apprehensively. 
It flew through his mind that 
there was a chapter on him in there; he was not sure he felt up to 

hearing Ritas version of his relationship with Dumbledore. Hermi-
ones answer, however, wa
s completely unexpected. I want to go and see Xenophilius Lovegood. He stared at her. Sorry? 
CHAPTER  TWENTY  394  Xenophilius Lovegood. Lunas fath
er. I want to go and talk to 
him! Er  why? She took a deep breath, as though
 bracing herself, and said, Its 
that mark, the mark in 
Beedle the Bard.
 Look at this! 
She thrust The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore
 under Harrys 
unwilling eyes and he saw a photogra
ph of the original letter that 
Dumbledore had written Grindelwald, with Dumbledores famil-
iar thin, slanting handwriting. He hated seeing absolute proof that 
Dumbledore really had written those 
words, that they had not been 
Ritas invention. 
The signature, said Hermione. Look at the signature, Harry! 
He obeyed. For a moment he had 
no idea what she was talking 
about, but, looking more closely wi
th the aid of his lit wand, he saw 
that Dumbledore 
had replaced the 
A of Albus with a tiny version 
of the same triangular
 mark inscribed upon 
The Tales of Beedle the 
Bard. Er  what are you  ? said 
Ron tentatively, but Hermione 
quelled him with a look an
d turned back to Harry. 
It keeps cropping up, doesnt it?
 she said. I know Viktor said 
it was Grindelwalds mark, but it wa
s definitely on that old grave in 
Godrics Hollow, and the dates on the headstone were long before 
Grindelwald came along! And now this! Well, we cant ask Dumble-dore or Grindelwald what it mean
s  I dont even know whether 
Grindelwalds still alive  but we can ask Mr. Lovegood. He was 
wearing the symbol at the wedding. Im sure this is important, 
Harry! Harry did not answer immediately. 
He looked into her intense, 
eager face and then out into the 
surrounding darkness, thinking. 
XENOPHILIUS  LOVEGOOD  395  After a long pause he said, Hermi
one, we dont need another God-
rics Hollow. We talked ourselves into going there, and  
But it keeps appearing, 
Harry! Dumbledore left me 
The Tales of 
Beedle the Bard,
 how do you know were not supposed to find out 
about the sign? 
Here we go again! Harry felt sl
ightly exasperated. We keep 
trying to convince ourselves Dumb
ledore left us secret signs and 
clues  
The Deluminator turned out to be pretty useful, piped up 
Ron. I think Hermiones right, I think we ought to go and see 

Lovegood. Harry threw him a dark look. He 
was quite sure that Rons sup-
port of Hermione had little to do with a desire to know the meaning 
of the triangular rune. 
It wont be like Godrics Hollow, Ron added, Lovegoods on 
your side, Harry, 
The Quibblers
 been for you all al
ong, it keeps tell-
ing everyone theyve 
got to help you! 
Im sure this is important!
 said Hermione earnestly. 
But dont you think if it was,
 Dumbledore would have told me 
about it before
 he died? 
Maybe . . . maybe its somethin
g you need to find out for your-
self, said Hermione with a faint air of clutching at straws. 
Yeah, said Ron sycophanti
cally, that makes sense. 
No, it doesnt, snapped Hermio
ne, but I still think we ought 
to talk to Mr. Lovegood. A symb
ol that links Dumbledore, Grin-
delwald, and Godrics Hollow? Harry, Im sure we ought to know 
about this! 
I think we should vote on it, sa
id Ron. Those in
 favor of going 
to see Lovegood  CHAPTER  TWENTY  396  His hand flew into the air before
 Hermiones. Her lips quivered 
suspiciously as sh
e raised her own. Outvoted, Harry, sorry, said 
Ron, clapping him on the back. 
Fine, said Harry, half amused, ha
lf irritated. O
nly, once weve 
seen Lovegood, lets try and look fo
r some more Horcruxes, shall we? 
Where do the Lovegoods live, an
yway? Do either of you know? Yeah, theyre not far from my pl
ace, said Ron. I dunno exactly 
where, but Mum and Dad always 
point toward the hills whenever 
they mention them. Should
nt be hard to find. 
When Hermione had returned to
 her bunk, Harry lowered his 
voice. You only agreed to try and 
get back in he
r good books. Alls fair in love and war, said 
Ron brightly, and this is a bit of 
both. Cheer up, its the Christma
s holidays, Lunall be home! 
They had an excellent view of th
e village of Ottery St. Catchpole 
from the breezy hillside to which th
ey Disapparated next morning. 
From their high vantage po
int the village looked 
like a collection of 
toy houses in the great slanting shafts of sunlight stretching to earth 
in the breaks between clouds. They 
stood for a minute or two looking 
toward the Burrow, their hands sh
adowing their eyes, but all they 
could make out were the high hedges
 and trees of the orchard, which 
afforded the crooked little hous
e protection from Muggle eyes. 
Its weird, being this near, but not going to visit, said Ron. 

Well, its not like you havent just seen th
em. You were there for Christmas, said Hermione coldly. 
I wasnt at the Burrow! said 
Ron with an incredulous laugh. 
Do you think I was going to go ba
ck there and tell them all Id 
walked out on you? Yeah, Fred 
and George wouldve been great 
about it. And Ginny, shed have been rea
lly understanding. XENOPHILIUS  LOVEGOOD  397  But where have you been, then
? asked Hermione, surprised. 
Bill and Fleurs new place. Shel
l Cottage. Bills always been de-
cent to me. He  he wasnt impressed when he heard what Id 
done, but he didnt go on about 
it. He knew I was really sorry. 
None of the rest of the family know I was there. Bill told Mum he 
and Fleur werent going home for Christmas because they wanted 
to spend it alone. You know, first 
holiday after they were married. I 
dont think Fleur minded. You know how much she hates Celestina 
Warbeck. Ron turned his back on the Burrow. 

Lets try up here, he said, leading the way over the top of the 
hill. They walked for a few hours, 
Harry, at Hermiones insistence, 
hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak. The clus
ter of low hills ap-
peared to be uninhabited apart 
from one small cottage, which 
seemed deserted. 
Do you think its theirs, and th
eyve gone away for Christmas? 
said Hermione, peering through the 
window at a neat little kitchen 
with geraniums on the windowsill. Ron snorted. Listen, Ive got a feeling youd be
 able to tell who lived there if 
you looked through the Lovegoods
 window. Lets try the next lot of hills. 
So they Disapparated a few miles farther north. 

Aha! shouted Ron, as the wind 
whipped their hair and clothes. 
Ron was pointing upward, toward the top of the hill on which they 
had appeared, where a most strang
e-looking house rose vertically 
against the sky, a great black cyli
nder with a ghostly moon hanging 
behind it in the afternoon sky. T
hats got to be Lunas house, who 
else would live in a place like th
at? It looks like a giant rook! 
CHAPTER  TWENTY  398  Its nothing like a bird, said Hermione, frowning at the tower. 
I was talking about a chess rook, said Ron. A castle to you. 
Rons legs were the longest and 
he reached the top of the hill 
first. When Harry and Hermione 
caught up with him, panting and 
clutching stitches in their sides, 
they found him grinning broadly. 
Its theirs, said Ron. Look. 
Three hand-painted signs had been tacked to a broken-down 
gate. The first read, THE QUIBBLER. EDITOR: X. LOVEGOOD 
the second, PICK YOUR OWN MISTLETOE 
the third, KEEP OFF THE DIRIGIBLE PLUMS The gate creaked as they opened 
it. The zigzagging path leading 
to the front door was overgrown with
 a variety of odd plants, includ-
ing a bush covered in the orange 
radishlike fruit Luna sometimes 
wore as earrings. Harry thought he 
recognized a Snar
galuff and gave 
the wizened stump a wide berth. 
Two aged crab apple trees, bent 
with the wind, stripped of leaves 
but still heavy with berry-sized red 
fruits and bushy crowns of white-
beaded mistletoe, stood sentinel 
on either side of the front door. A li
ttle owl with a slightly flattened, 
hawklike head peered down at 
them from one of the branches. 
Youd better take off the Invisi
bility Cloak, Harry, said Hermi-
one. Its you Mr. Lovegood wants to help, not us. 
He did as she suggested, handin
g her the Cloak to
 stow in the 
beaded bag. She then rapped thre
e times on the thick black door, 
XENOPHILIUS  LOVEGOOD  399  which was studded with iron nails 
and bore a knocker shaped like 
an eagle. 
Barely ten seconds passed, then th
e door was flung open and there 
stood Xenophilius Lovegood, baref
oot and wearing what appeared 
to be a stained nightshirt. His lo
ng white candyfloss hair was dirty 
and unkempt. Xenophilius had be
en positively dapper at Bill and 
Fleurs wedding by comparison. 
What? What is it? Who are you? What do you want? he cried 
in a high-pitched, querulous voice, looking first at Hermione, then 
at Ron, and finally at Harry, upon
 which his mouth fell open in a 
perfect, comical O. 
Hello, Mr. Lovegood, said Harr
y, holding out his hand. Im 
Harry, Harry Potter. 
Xenophilius did not take Harrys hand, although the eye that was 
not pointing inward at his nose slid straight to the scar on Harrys 

forehead. Would it be okay if we came 
in? asked Harry. Theres some-
thing wed like to ask you. I . . . Im not sure thats advisable, whispered Xenophilius. 
He swallowed and cast a quick l
ook around the garden. Rather a 
shock . . . My word . . . I . . . Im afraid I dont really think I ought 
to  
It wont take long, said Harry,
 slightly disappointed by this 
less-than-warm welcome. 
I  oh, all right th
en. Come in, quickly. 
Quickly
! They were barely over the th
reshold when Xenophilius slammed 
the door shut behind them. They we
re standing in the most peculiar 
kitchen Harry had ever seen. The room
 was perfectly circular, so that 
it felt like being 
inside a giant pepper pot.
 Everything was curved 
CHAPTER  TWENTY  400  to fit the walls  the stove, the 
sink, and the cupboards  and all of it had been painted with flowers,
 insects, and birds in bright pri-
mary colors. Harry thought he reco
gnized Lunas style: The effect, 
in such an enclosed space,
 was slightly overwhelming. 
In the middle of the floor, a wrought-iron spiral staircase led to the 
upper levels. There was a great deal of clattering and banging coming 
from overhead: Harry wondered 
what Luna could be doing. Youd better come up, said X
enophilius, still looking extremely 
uncomfortable, and he led the way. 
The room above seemed to be a 
combination of living room and 
workplace, and as such, was even mo
re cluttered than the kitchen. 
Though much smaller and entirely round, the room somewhat re-
sembled the Room of Requirement 
on the unforgettable occasion 
that it had transformed itself in
to a gigantic labyrinth comprised 
of centuries of hidden objects. Ther
e were piles upon piles of books 
and papers on every surface. Deli
cately made models of creatures 
Harry did not recognize, all flapping
 wings or snapping jaws, hung 
from the ceiling. 
Luna was not there: The thing th
at was making such a racket 
was a wooden object covered in ma
gically turning cogs and wheels. 
It looked like the bizarre offspring of a workbench and a set of 
old shelves, but after a moment 
Harry deduced that it was an old-
fashioned printing press, due to th
e fact that it was churning out 
Quibblers.
 Excuse me, said Xenophilius, and he strode over to the ma-
chine, seized a grubby tablecloth
 from beneath an immense number 
of books and papers, which all tumbled onto the floor, and threw it 
over the press, somewhat muffling 
the loud bangs and clatters. He 
then faced Harry. 
XENOPHILIUS  LOVEGOOD  401  Why have you 
come here? 
Before Harry could speak, howe
ver, Hermione let out a small 
cry of shock. Mr. Lovegood  whats that? She was pointing at an enormous, gray spiral horn, not unlike 
that of a unicorn, which had been
 mounted on the 
wall, protruding several feet into the room. 
It is the horn of a Crumple-
Horned Snorkack, said Xeno-
philius. 
No it isnt! said Hermione. 

Hermione, muttered Harry, embarrassed, nows not the 
moment  
But Harry, its an Erumpent horn! Its a Class B Tradeable 
Material and its an extraordinar
ily dangerous thing to have in a 
house! 
How dyou know its an Erumpent horn? asked Ron, edging 
away from the horn as fast as he
 could, given the extreme clutter 
of the room. Theres a description in 
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them
! Mr. Lovegood, you need to get rid of
 it straightaway, dont you know 
it can explode at th
e slightest touch? 
The Crumple-Horned Snorkack, 
said Xenophilius very clearly, 
a mulish look upon his face, is 
a shy and highly magical creature, 
and its horn  
Mr. Lovegood, I recognize the 
grooved markings around the 
base, thats an Erumpent horn and its incredibly dangerous  I 
dont know where you got it  
I bought it, said Xenophilius 
dogmatically, two weeks ago, from 
a delightful young wizard who knew of my interest in the exquisite 
CHAPTER  TWENTY  402  Snorkack. A Christmas surprise for my Luna. Now, he said, turning 
to Harry, why exactly have 
you come here, Mr. Potter? 
We need some help, said Harry, before Hermione could start 
again. Ah, said Xenophilius. Help. Hmm. 
His good eye moved again to Harrys scar. He seemed simultane-
ously terrified and mesmerized. Yes. The thing is . . . helping 
Harry Potter . . . rather danger-
ous . . . 
Arent you the one who keeps telling
 everyone its their first duty 
to help Harry? said Ron. In that magazine of yours? 
Xenophilius glanced behind him at 
the concealed printing press, 
still banging and clattering beneath the tablecloth. 
Er  yes, I have expressed that view. However  
Thats for everyone else to do, 
not you personally? said Ron. 
Xenophilius did not answer. He ke
pt swallowing, his eyes darting 
between the three of them. Harry had the impression that he was 
undergoing some painful internal struggle. 
Wheres Luna? asked Hermione. Lets see what she thinks. 
Xenophilius gulped. He seemed to
 be steeling himself. Finally he 
said in a shaky voice difficult to he
ar over the noise of the printing 
press, Luna is down at the stream, fishing for Freshwater Plimpies. 
She . . . she will like to see you. I
ll go and call her and then  yes, 
very well. I shall try to help you. 
He disappeared down the spiral st
aircase and they heard the front 
door open and close. They looked at each other. Cowardly old wart, said Ron. 
Lunas got ten ti
mes his guts. 
Hes probably worried about what
ll happen to them if the Death 
Eaters find out I was 
here, said Harry. 
XENOPHILIUS  LOVEGOOD  403  Well, I agree with Ron, said Hermione. Awful old hypocrite, 
telling everyone else to help you and trying to worm out of it him-

self. And for heavens sake keep away from that horn. 
Harry crossed to the window on 
the far side of the room. He 
could see a stream, a thin, glittering ribbon lying far below them 
at the base of the hill. They were very high up; a bird fluttered past 
the window as he stared in the direction of the Burrow, now invis-

ible beyond another line of hills.
 Ginny was over there somewhere. 
They were closer to each other to
day than they had been since Bill 
and Fleurs wedding, but she could have no idea he 
was gazing to-
ward her now, thinking of her. He supposed he ought to be glad of 
it; anyone he came into contact wi
th was in danger, Xenophiliuss 
attitude proved that. 
He turned away from the window and his gaze fell upon another 
peculiar object standing upon th
e cluttered, curved sideboard: a 
stone bust of a beautiful but aust
ere-looking witch wearing a most 
bizarre-looking headdress. Two ob
jects that resembled golden ear 
trumpets curved out from the sides. A tiny pair of glittering blue 
wings was stuck to a leat
her strap that ran over
 the top of her head, 
while one of the orange radishes had been stuck to a second strap 

around her forehead. 
Look at this, said Harry. 
Fetching, said Ron. Surprised
 he didnt wear that to the 
wedding. 
They heard the front door close,
 and a moment later Xenophil-
ius had climbed back up the spiral 
staircase into the room, his thin 
legs now encased in Wellington boots, bearing a tray of ill-assorted 
teacups and a steaming teapot. 
Ah, you have spotted my pet in
vention, he said, shoving the 
CHAPTER  TWENTY  404  tray into Hermiones arms and joining Harry at the statues side. 
Modeled, fittingly enough, upon the head of the beautiful Rowena 

Ravenclaw. 
Wit beyond measure is 
mans greatest treasure
! 
He indicated the objects like ear trumpets. These are the Wrackspurt siphon
s  to remove all sources of 
distraction from the thinkers immed
iate area. Here, he pointed out 
the tiny wings, a billywig propeller,
 to induce an elevated frame of 
mind. Finally, he pointed to the or
ange radish, the Dirigible Plum, 
so as to enhance the ability to accept the extraordinary. 
Xenophilius strode back to the 
tea tray, which Hermione had man-
aged to balance precariously on 
one of the cluttered side tables. 
May I offer you all an infusion
 of Gurdyroots? said Xenophil-
ius. We make it ourselves. As he started to pour out the drink, 
which was as deeply purple as beet
root juice, he added, Luna is 
down beyond Bottom Bridge, she is 
most excited that you are here. 
She ought not to be too long, sh
e has caught nearly enough Plimp-
ies to make soup for all of us. Do sit down and help yourselves to 
sugar. Now, he removed a tottering pile
 of papers from an armchair 
and sat down, his Wellingtoned legs
 crossed, how may I help you, 
Mr. Potter? 
Well, said Harry, glancing 
at Hermione, who nodded encour-
agingly, its about that symbol 
you were wearing around your neck 
at Bill and Fleurs wedding, Mr. 
Lovegood. We wondered what it 
meant. 
Xenophilius raised his eyebrows. 
Are you referring to the si
gn of the Deathly Hallows? 
C H A P T E R  T W E N T Y - O N E   405  THE TALE OF THE 
THREE BROTHERS 
 arry turned to look at Ron and Hermione. Neither of 
them seemed to have unde
rstood what Xenophilius had 
said either. 
The Deathly Hallows? 
Thats right, said Xenophilius. 
You havent heard of them? Im 
not surprised. Very, very few wiza
rds believe. Witness that knuckle-
headed young man at your brothe
rs wedding, he nodded at Ron, 
who attacked me for sporting th
e symbol of a well-known Dark 
wizard! Such ignorance. There is
 nothing Dark about the Hallows 
 at least, not in that crude sens
e. One simply uses the symbol to 
reveal oneself to other believers, 
in the hope that they might help 
one with the Quest. 
He stirred several lu
mps of sugar into his Gurdyroot infusion 
and drank some. 
Im sorry, said Harry. I st
ill dont really understand. 
To be polite, he took a sip from
 his cup too, and almost gagged: 
H CHAPTER  TWENTY-ONE  406  The stuff was quite disgusting, as
 though someone had liquidized 
bogey-flavored Every Flavor Beans. 
Well, you see, believers seek 
the Deathly Hallows, said Xeno-
philius, smacking his lips in appa
rent appreciation of the Gurdyroot 
infusion. 
But what 
are the Deathly Hallows? asked Hermione. 
Xenophilius set aside his empty teacup. 

I assume that you are all familiar with The Tale of the Three 
Brothers? 
Harry said, No, but Ron and Her
mione both said, Yes. Xeno-
philius nodded gravely. 
Well, well, Mr. Potter, the whole 
thing starts with The Tale of 
the Three Brothers . . . I have
 a copy somewhere. . . . 
He glanced vaguely around the r
oom, at the piles of parchment 
and books, but Hermione said, Iv
e got a copy, Mr. Lovegood, Ive 
got it right here. 
And she pulled out The Tales of Beedle the Bard
 from the small, 
beaded bag. The original? inquired Xenoph
ilius sharply, and when she nod-
ded, he said, Well then, why dont 
you read it aloud? Much the best 
way to make sure we
 all understand. 
Er . . . all right, said Hermione 
nervously. She opened the book, 
and Harry saw that the sy
mbol they were investigating headed the 
top of the page as she gave a little cough, and began to read. 
There were once three brothers wh
o were traveling along a lonely, 
winding road at twilight
  
Midnight, our mum always told us
, said Ron, who had stretched 
out, arms behind his head, to list
en. Hermione shot him a look of 
annoyance. 
THE  TALE  OF  THE THREE  BROTHERS  407  Sorry, I just think its a bit spooki
er if its midnight! said Ron. 
Yeah, because we really need a bi
t more fear in 
our lives, said 
Harry before he could stop himse
lf. Xenophilius did not seem to 
be paying much attention, but was staring out of the window at the 
sky. Go on, Hermione. 
In time, the brothers reached a river too deep to wade through and 
too dangerous to swim across. However, these brothers were learned in 
the magical arts, and so they simply waved their wands and made a 
bridge appear across the treacherous water. They were halfway across it 
when they found their path blocked by
 a hooded figure. And Death spoke to them
  
Sorry, interjected Harry, but 
Death
 spoke to them? Its a fairy tale, Harry! 

Right, sorry. Go on. 
And Death spoke to them. He was angry that he had been cheated 
out of three new victims, for traveler
s usually drowned in the river. But 
Death was cunning. He pretended to 
congratulate the three brothers 
upon their magic, and said that e
ach had earned a prize for having 
been clever enough to evade him.
 So the oldest brother, who was a 
combative man, asked for a wand 
more powerful than any in existence: a wand that must always win duels 
for its owner, a wand worthy of a 
wizard who had conquered Death! So 
Death crossed to an elder tree on the 
banks of the river, fashioned a wand 
from a branch that hung
 there, and gave it to the oldest brother.
 Then the second brother, who was 
an arrogant man, decided that 
he wanted to humiliate Death still 
further, and asked for the power to 
recall others from Death.
 So Death picked up a 
stone from the riverbank 
and gave it to the second brother,
 and told him that the stone would 
have the power to bring back the dead.
 CHAPTER  TWENTY-ONE  408  And then Death asked the third 
and youngest brother what he 
would like. The youngest brother was 
the humblest and also the wisest 
of the brothers, and he did not trus
t Death. So he asked for something 
that would enable him to go forth 
from that place without being fol-
lowed by Death. And Death, most unwillingly, handed over his own 
Cloak of Invisibility.
 
Deaths got an Invisibility Cl
oak? Harry inte
rrupted again. 
So he can sneak up on people, 
said Ron. Sometimes he gets 
bored of running at them, flapping 
his arms and shri
eking . . . sorry, 
Hermione. 
Then Death stood aside and allowed the three brothers to continue 
on their way, and they did so, talk
ing with wonder of the adventure 
they had had, and admiring Deaths gifts.
 In due course the brothers separa
ted, each for his own destination.
 The first brother traveled on for a week or more, and reaching a 
distant village, sought out a fellow 
wizard with whom he had a quar-
rel. Naturally, with the Elder Wand 
as his weapon, he
 could not fail 
to win the duel that followed. Leav
ing his enemy dead upon the floor, 
the oldest brother proceeded to an inn, where he boasted loudly of the 

powerful wand he had snatched fr
om Death himself, and of how it 
made him invincible.
 That very night, another wizard cr
ept upon the oldest brother as he 
lay, wine-sodden, upon his bed. The thief took the wand and, for good 
measure, slit the oldest brothers throat.
 And so Death took the first brother for his own.
 Meanwhile, the second brother journeyed to his own home, where 
he lived alone. Here he took out th
e stone that had the power to recall 
the dead, and turned it thrice in 
his hand. To his amazement and his
   THE  TALE  OF  THE THREE  BROTHERS  409  delight, the figure of the girl he had once hoped to marry, before her 
untimely death, appeared at once before him.
 Yet she was sad and cold, separated 
from him as by a veil. Though 
she had returned to the mortal world,
 she did not truly belong there and 
suffered. Finally the second brother, driven mad with hopeless longing, 

killed himself so as truly to join her.
 And so Death took the second brother for his own.
 But though Death searched for the third brother for many years, he 
was never able to find him. It was only when he had attained a great 
age that the youngest brother finally 
took off the Cloak of Invisibility 
and gave it to his son. And then he greeted Death as an old friend, and 
went with him gladly, and, equals, they departed this life.
 
Hermione closed the book. It wa
s a moment or two before Xeno-philius seemed to realize that she 
had stopped reading, then he with-
drew his gaze from th
e window and said, Well, there you are. 
Sorry? said Hermione, sounding confused. 

Those are the Deathly Hallows, said Xenophilius. 
He picked up a quill from a pack
ed table at his elbow, and pulled 
a torn piece of parchment 
from between more books. 
The Elder Wand, he said, and he
 drew a straight vertical line 
upon the parchment. The Resurrection Stone, he said, and he added 

a circle on top of the li
ne. The Cloak of Invisibi
lity, he finished, en-
closing both line and circle in a triangle, to make the symbol that so 
intrigued Hermione. Together, he said, the Deathly Hallows. 
But theres no mention of the words Deathly Hallows in the 
story, said Hermione. 
Well, of course not, said Xenophilius, maddeningly smug. That 
is a childrens tale, told to amuse rather than to instruct. Those of us  
 CHAPTER  TWENTY-ONE  410  who understand these matters, howe
ver, recognize that the ancient 
story refers to three objects, or Hall
ows, which, if united, will make 
the possessor master of Death. 
There was a short silence in which Xenophilius glanced out of the 
window. Already the sun 
was low in the sky. Luna ought to have enough Plim
pies soon, he 
said quietly. 
When you say master of Death  said Ron. 

Master, said Xenophilius, waving an airy hand. Conqueror. 
Vanquisher. Whichever term you prefer. 
But then . . . do you mean . . . said Hermione slowly, and Harry 
could tell that she was trying to k
eep any trace of skepticism out of 
her voice, that you believe these objects  these Hallows  actu-
ally exist? Xenophilius raised his eyebrows again. 
Well, of course. 

But, said Hermione, and Harry could hear her restraint starting 
to crack, Mr. Lovegood, how can you possibly believe  ? 
Luna has told me all about you, 
young lady, said Xenophilius. 
You are, I gather, not unintellig
ent, but painfully limited. Narrow. 
Close-minded. 
Perhaps you ought to try on the hat, Hermione, said Ron, 
nodding toward the ludicrous hea
ddress. His voice shook with the 
strain of not laughing. 
Mr. Lovegood, Hermione began again. We all know that there 
are such things as Invisibility Cloaks. They are rare, but they exist. 
But  Ah, but the Third Hallow is a 
true Cloak of Invisibility, Miss 
Granger! I mean to say, it is not a traveling cloak imbued with a Dis-

illusionment Charm, or carrying 
a Bedazzling Hex, or else woven 
THE  TALE  OF  THE THREE  BROTHERS  411  from Demiguise hair, w
hich will hide one initia
lly but fade with the 
years until it turns opaque. We are 
talking about a cl
oak that really 
and truly renders the wearer comp
letely invisible, and endures 
eternally, giving constant and im
penetrable concealment, no matter 
what spells are cast at it. How ma
ny cloaks have you ever seen like 
that,
 Miss Granger? 
Hermione opened her mouth to answer, then closed it again, 
looking more confused than ever. She, Harry, and Ron glanced 
at one another, and Harry knew th
at they were all thinking the 
same thing. It so happened that 
a cloak exactly like the one Xeno-
philius had just described was in 
the room with them at that very 
moment. 
Exactly, said Xenophilius, as 
if he had defeated them all in 
reasoned argument. None of you ha
ve ever seen such a thing. The 
possessor would be immeasur
ably rich, would he not? 
He glanced out of the window again. The sky was now tinged 
with the faintest trace of pink. 
All right, said Hermione, disconcerted. Say the Cloak existed 
. . . what about the stone, Mr. 
Lovegood? The thing you call the 
Resurrection Stone? 
What of it? 
Well, how can th
at be real? 
Prove that it is no
t, said Xenophilius. 
Hermione looked outraged. 
But thats  Im sorry, but th
ats completely ridiculous! How 
can I possibly
 prove it doesnt ex
ist? Do you expect me to get hold 
of  of all the pebbles in the world and test them? I mean, you 
could claim that 
anythings
 real if the only basis for believing in it 
is that nobodys 
proved it doesnt exist! CHAPTER  TWENTY-ONE  412  Yes, you could, said Xenophilius. 
I am glad to 
see that you are 
opening your mind a little. 
So the Elder Wand, said Harry quickly, before Hermione could 
retort, you think that exists too? 
Oh, well, in that case there is
 endless evidence, 
said Xenophil-
ius. The Elder Wand is the Hallow that is most easily traced, be-
cause of the way in which it 
passes from hand to hand. 
Which is what? asked Harry. Which is that the possessor of 
the wand must capture it from 
its previous owner, if he is to be 
truly master of it, said Xenophil-
ius. Surely you have heard of the 
way the wand came to Egbert the 
Egregious, after his slaughter of 
Emeric the Evil? Of how Godelot 
died in his own cellar after his son, Hereward, took the wand from 
him? Of the dreadful Loxias, who took the wand from Barnabas 
Deverill, whom he had killed? Th
e bloody trail of the Elder Wand 
is splattered across the pages of Wizarding history. 
Harry glanced at Hermione. She wa
s frowning at Xenophilius, 
but she did not contradict him. 
So where do you think the Elde
r Wand is now? asked Ron. 
Alas, who knows? said Xenophil
ius, as he gazed out of the 
window. Who knows where the Elde
r Wand lies hidden? The trail 
goes cold with Arcus and Livius. 
Who can say which of them really 
defeated Loxias, and which took the wand? And who can say who 

may have defeated them? Histo
ry, alas, does not tell us. 
There was a pause. Finally Herm
ione asked stiffly, Mr. Love-
good, does the Peverell family have
 anything to do with the Deathly 
Hallows? 
Xenophilius looked taken aback as something shifted in Harrys  
 THE  TALE  OF  THE THREE  BROTHERS  413  memory, but he could not locate it. 
Peverell . . . he
 had heard that 
name before. . . . But you have been misleading me, young woman! said Xeno-
philius, now sitting up much straig
hter in his chair and goggling at 
Hermione. I thought you were new to the Hallows Quest! Many of 
us Questers believe that the Peverells have everything  
everything
!  to do with the Hallows! 
Who are the Peverells? asked Ron. 
That was the name on the grave with the mark on it, in Godrics 
Hollow, said Hermione, still wa
tching Xenophilius. Ignotus 
Peverell. 
Exactly! said Xenophilius, his 
forefinger raised pedantically. 
The sign of the Deathly Hallows 
on Ignotuss grave is conclusive 
proof! 
Of what? asked Ron. 

Why, that the three brothers in 
the story were actually the three 
Peverell brothers, Antioch, Cadmus
, and Ignotus! That they were 
the original owners of the Hallows! With another glance at the window
 he got to his feet, picked up 
the tray, and headed for the spiral staircase. 
You will stay for dinner? he ca
lled, as he vanished downstairs 
again. Everybody always requests 
our recipe for Freshwater Plimpy 
soup. 
Probably to show the Poisonin
g Department at St. Mungos, 
said Ron under his breath. 
Harry waited until they could 
hear Xenophilius moving about 
in the kitchen downstairs before speaking. What do you think? he asked Hermione. 
 CHAPTER  TWENTY-ONE  414  Oh, Harry, she said wearily, it
s a pile of utter rubbish. This 
cant be what the sign really means.
 This must just be his weird take 
on it. What a waste of time. 
I spose this 
is the man who brought us Crumple-Horned Snor-
kacks, said Ron. You dont believe it either? Harry asked him. 
Nah, that storys just 
one of those things yo
u tell kids to teach 
them lessons, isnt it? Dont go look
ing for trouble, dont pick fights, 
dont go messing around with stuff th
ats best left alone! Just keep 
your head down, mind your own bu
siness, and youll be okay Come 
to think of it, Ron added, maybe
 that storys why elder wands are 
supposed to be unlucky. 
What are you talking about? 
One of those superstitions, isnt 
it? May-born witches will marry 
Muggles. Jinx by twilight, undone 
by midnight. Wand of elder, 
never prosper. You mustve heard 
them. My mums full of them. 
Harry and I were raised by Muggles, Hermione reminded him. 
We were taught different supersti
tions. She sighed deeply as a 
rather pungent smell drifted up 
from the kitchen. The one good 
thing about her exasperation with X
enophilius was that it seemed to 
have made her forget that she was 
annoyed at Ron. I think youre 
right, she told him. It
s just a morality tale, its obvious which gift 
is best, which on
e youd choose  The three of them spoke at the same time; Hermione said, the 
Cloak, Ron said, the wand, and Harry said, the stone. 
They looked at each other, half surprised, half amused. 
Youre supposed to say the Cloak, Ron told Hermione, but you 
wouldnt need to be invisible if you had the wand. 
An unbeatable 
wand,
 Hermione, come on! 
THE  TALE  OF  THE THREE  BROTHERS  415  Weve already got an Invisi
bility Cloak, said Harry. 
And its helped us rather a lot, in case you hadnt noticed! 
said Hermione. Whereas the wa
nd would be bound to attract 
trouble  
Only if you shouted ab
out it, argued Ron. Only if you were 
prat enough to go dancing around, 
waving it over your head, and 
singing, Ive got an unbeatable 
wand, come and have a go if you 
think youre hard enough. As long
 as you kept your
 trap shut  Yes, but could you keep your trap shut? said Hermione, look-
ing skeptical. You know, the only true thing he said to us was that 

there have been stories about extra-
powerful wands for hundreds of 
years. 
There have? asked Harry. 
Hermione looked exasperated: Th
e expression was so endearingly 
familiar that Harr
y and Ron grinned at each other. 
The Deathstick, the Wand of Dest
iny, they crop up under differ-
ent names through the centuries, usually in the possession of some 
Dark wizard whos boasting abou
t them. Professor Binns mentioned 
some of them, but  oh, its all nonsense. Wands are only as pow-
erful as the wizards who use them. 
Some wizards just like to boast 
that theirs are bigger and better than other peoples. 
But how do you know, said Harry, that those wands  the 
Deathstick and the Wand of Dest
iny  arent the same wand, sur-
facing over the centurie
s under different names? What, and theyre all really th
e Elder Wand, made by Death? 
said Ron. 
Harry laughed: The strange idea 
that had occurred to him was, 
after all, ridiculous. His wand, 
he reminded himself, had been of 
holly, not elder, and it had been made
 by Ollivander, whatever it had 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-ONE  416  done that night Voldemort had purs
ued him across the skies. And 
if it had been unbeatable, ho
w could it have been broken? 
So why would you take th
e stone? Ron asked him. 
Well, if you could bring people 
back, we could have Sirius . . . 
Mad-Eye . . . Dumbledore . 
. . my parents. . . . Neither Ron nor Hermione smiled. 
But according to Beedle the Bard, they wouldnt want to come 
back, would they? said Harry, th
inking about the tale they had 
just heard. I dont suppose ther
e have been loads of other sto-
ries about a stone that
 can raise the dead, have there? he asked 
Hermione. 
No, she replied sadly. I dont
 think anyone except Mr. Love-
good could kid themselves thats po
ssible. Beedle probably took the 
idea from the Sorcerers Stone; you know, instead of a stone to make 
you immortal, a stone 
to reverse death. The smell from the kitchen was 
getting stronger: It was some-
thing like burning underpants. 
Harry wondered whether it would 
be possible to eat enough of what
ever Xenophilius was cooking to 
spare his feelings. What about the Cloak, though? said Ron slowly. Dont you 
realize, hes right? I
ve got so used to Har
rys Cloak and how good it is, I never stopped to think. Ive never heard of one like Harrys. 
Its infallible. Weve never 
been spotted under it  
Of course not  were invisibl
e when were under it, Ron! 
But all the stuff he said about 
other cloaks, and theyre not ex-actly ten a Knut, you know, is true! 
Its never occurred to me before, 
but Ive heard stuff about charms 
wearing off cloaks when they get 
old, or them being ripped apart by spells so theyve got holes in.  

 THE  TALE  OF  THE THREE  BROTHERS  417  Harrys was owned by his dad, so its
 not exactly new, 
is it, but its 
just . . . perfect! Yes, all right, but Ron, the 
stone
 . . . As they argued in whispers, Ha
rry moved around the room, only 
half listening. Reaching the spiral st
air, he raised his eyes absently to 
the next level and was distracted at
 once. His own face was looking 
back at him from the ceiling of the room above. 
After a moments bewilderment, he realized that it was not a mir-
ror, but a painting. Curious, 
he began to climb the stairs. 
Harry, what are you doing? I dont
 think you should look around 
when hes not here! But Harry had already re
ached the next level. 
Luna had decorated her bedroom 
ceiling with five beautifully 
painted faces: Harry, Ron, Herm
ione, Ginny, and Neville. They 
were not moving as the portraits at Hogwarts moved, but there 

was a certain magic about them 
all the same: Harry thought they 
breathed. What appeared to be fi
ne golden chains wove around the 
pictures, linking them together, but after examining them for a 
minute or so, Harry realiz
ed that the chains we
re actually one word, 
repeated a thousand times in golden ink: 
friends . . . 
friends
 . . . 
friends
 . . . Harry felt a great rush of affection
 for Luna. He looked around 
the room. There was a large photograph beside the bed, of a young 

Luna and a woman who looked very 
like her. They were hugging. 
Luna looked rather better-groomed
 in this picture than Harry had 
ever seen her in life. The picture 
was dusty. This struck Harry as 
slightly odd. He stared around. 
Something was wrong. The pale blue
 carpet was also thick with  
 CHAPTER  TWENTY-ONE  418  dust. There were no clothes in the wardrobe, whose doors stood ajar. 
The bed had a cold, unfriendly look, as though it had not been slept in for weeks. A single cobweb st
retched over the nearest window, 
across a bloodred sky. 
Whats wrong? Hermione asked as Harry descended the stair-
case, but before he could respond,
 Xenophilius reached the top of 
the stairs from the kitchen, now holding a tray laden with bowls. 
Mr. Lovegood, said Harry. Wheres Luna? Excuse me? Wheres Luna? 

Xenophilius halted on the top step. 
I  Ive already told you. Sh
e is down at Bottom Bridge, fish-
ing for Plimpies. 
So why have you only laid
 that tray for four? 
Xenophilius tried to speak, but no sound came out. The only 
noise was the continued chugging of 
the printing press, and a slight 
rattle from the tray as Xenophiliuss hands shook. 
I dont think Lunas been here 
for weeks, said Harry. Her 
clothes are gone, her bed hasnt 
been slept in. Where is she? And 
why do you keep looking out of the window? 
Xenophilius dropped the tray: The bowls bounced and smashed. Harry, Ron, and Hermione drew their wands: Xenophilius froze, 
his hand about to enter his pocket
. At that moment the printing 
press gave a huge bang and numerous 
Quibblers came streaming 
across the floor from underneath th
e tablecloth; the press fell silent 
at last. Hermione stooped down and picked up one of the magazines, 
her wand still pointing at Mr. Lovegood. Harry, look at this. THE  TALE  OF  THE THREE  BROTHERS  419  He strode over to her as quickly 
as he could through all the clut-
ter. The front of 
The Quibbler 
carried his own picture, emblazoned 
with the words 
Undesirable Number One
 and captioned with 
the reward money. 
The Quibblers 
going for a new angle, then? Harry asked coldly, 
his mind working very fast. Is that what you were doing when 
you went into the garden, Mr. Lo
vegood? Sending an owl to the 
Ministry? 
Xenophilius licked his lips. 
They took my Luna, he whispered. Because of what Ive been 
writing. They took my Luna and I dont know where she is, what 
theyve done to her. But they might give her back to me if I  if 
I  Hand over Harry? Hermione finished for him. 
No deal, said Ron flatly. Get out of the way, were leaving. 
Xenophilius looked ghastly, a ce
ntury old, his lips drawn back 
into a dreadful leer. 
They will be here at any moment. I must save Luna. I cannot 
lose Luna. You must not leave. 
He spread his arms in front of the staircase, and Harry had a sud-den vision of his mother doing the same thing in front of his crib. 
Dont make us hurt you, Harry said. Get out of the way, Mr. 
Lovegood. HARRY! Hermione screamed. Figures on broomsticks were flying
 past the windows. As the three 
of them looked away from him, 
Xenophilius drew his wand. Harry 
realized their mistake just in ti
me: He launched himself sideways, 
shoving Ron and Hermione out of ha
rms way as Xenophiliuss Stun-
ning Spell soared across the ro
om and hit the Erumpent horn. 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-ONE  420  There was a colossal explosion. Th
e sound of it seemed to blow 
the room apart: Fragments of wood and paper and rubble flew in 

all directions, along with an impene
trable cloud of thick white dust. 
Harry flew through the air, then cr
ashed to the floor, unable to see 
as debris rained upon him, his arms over his head. He heard Her-
miones scream, Rons yell, and a seri
es of sickening metallic thuds, 
which told him that Xenophilius 
had been blasted off his feet and 
fallen backward down the spiral stairs. 
Half buried in rubble, Harry tr
ied to raise himself: He could 
barely breathe or see for dust. Half
 of the ceiling had fallen in, and 
the end of Lunas bed was hangin
g through the hole. The bust of 
Rowena Ravenclaw lay beside him wi
th half its face missing, frag-
ments of torn parchment were floating through the air, and most 
of the printing press lay on its side, blocking the top of the stair-
case to the kitchen. Then anothe
r white shape moved close by, and Hermione, coated in dust like a second statue, pressed her finger 
to her lips. 
The door downstairs crashed open. Didnt I tell you there was no need
 to hurry, Travers? said a rough 
voice. Didnt I tell 
you this nutter was just raving as usual? 
There was a bang and a scream of pain from Xenophilius. No . . . no . . . upstairs . . . Potter! 
I told you last week, Lovegood
, we werent coming back for any-
thing less than some so
lid information! Remember last week? When 
you wanted to swap your daughter
 for that stupid bleeding head-
dress? And the week before  
another bang, another squeal  
when you thought wed give her ba
ck if you offered us proof there 
are Crumple  
bang
  Headed  bang
  Snorkacks? 
 THE  TALE  OF  THE THREE  BROTHERS  421  No  no  I beg you! sobbed X
enophilius. It really is Pot-
ter! Really! And now it turns out you only ca
lled us here to try and blow us 
up! roared the Death Eater, and 
there was a volley of bangs inter-
spersed with squeals of agony from Xenophilius. 
The place looks like it
s about to fall in, 
Selwyn, said a cool 
second voice, echoing up the mang
led staircase. The stairs are 
completely blocked. Could try clearing it? Might bring the place 
down. You lying piece of filth, shouted the wizard named Selwyn. 
Youve never seen Potter in your
 life, have you? Thought youd 
lure us here to kill us, did you? 
And you think youll get your girl 
back like this? I swear . . . I swear . . . Potters upstairs! 
Homenum revelio,
 said the voice at the foot of the stairs. 
Harry heard Hermione gasp, and he had the odd sensation that 
something was swooping low over him, immersing his body in its 
shadow. Theres someone up there all ri
ght, Selwyn, said the second 
man sharply. 
Its Potter, I tell you, its Potter!
 sobbed Xenophilius. Please . . . 
please . . . give me Luna, just let me have Luna. . . . You can have your little girl, Lovegood, said Selwyn, if you 
get up those stairs and bring me do
wn Harry Potter. But if this is 
a plot, if its a trick, if youve go
t an accomplice waiting up there to 
ambush us, well see if we can spar
e a bit of your daughter for you 
to bury. 
Xenophilius gave a wail of fear and despair. There were scurryings  
 CHAPTER  TWENTY-ONE  422  and scrapings: Xenophilius was tryi
ng to get through the debris on 
the stairs. Come on, Harry whispered, weve got to get out of here. He started to dig himself out un
der cover of all the noise Xeno-
philius was making on the staircas
e. Ron was buried deepest: Harry 
and Hermione climbed, as quietly as they could, over all the wreck-
age to where he lay, trying to prise a heavy chest of drawers off his 

legs. While Xenophiliuss bangin
g and scraping drew nearer and 
nearer, Hermione managed to free
 Ron with the use of a Hover 
Charm. All right, breathed Hermione, 
as the broken printing press 
blocking the top of the stairs began to tremble; Xenophilius was 
feet away from them. She was sti
ll white with dust. Do you trust 
me, Harry? Harry nodded. 

Okay then, Hermione whispered,
 give me the Invisibility 
Cloak. Ron, youre going to put it on. 
Me? But Harry  
Please, Ron! Harry, hold on tight to my hand, Ron, grab my 
shoulder. 
Harry held out his left
 hand. Ron vanished 
beneath the Cloak. 
The printing press blocking the stairs was vibrating: Xenophilius 
was trying to shift it using a 
Hover Charm. Harry did not know 
what Hermione was waiting for. 
Hold tight, she whispered. Hold tight . . . any second . . . 
Xenophiliuss paper-white face 
appeared over the top of the 
sideboard. 
Obliviate! cried Hermione, pointing her wand first into his 
face, then at the floor beneath them. 
Deprimo
! THE  TALE  OF  THE THREE  BROTHERS  423  She had blasted a hole in the si
tting room floor. They fell like 
boulders, Harry still holding onto 
her hand for dear life; there was 
a scream from below, and he glim
psed two men trying to get out 
of the way as vast quantities of 
rubble and broken furniture rained 
all around them from the shattere
d ceiling. Hermione twisted in 
midair and the thundering of the collapsing house rang in Harrys 
ears as she dragged him on
ce more into darkness. 
C H A P T E R  T W E N T Y - T W O   424  THE DEATHLY HALLOWS 
   arry fell, panting, onto gras
s and scrambled up at once. 
They seemed to have landed 
in the corner of a field at 
dusk; Hermione was already running in a circle around them, wav-

ing her wand. 
Protego Totalum
 . . . Salvio Hexia
 . . . That treacherous old bleeder! Ron panted, emerging from be-
neath the Invisibility Cloak and th
rowing it to Harry. Hermione, 
youre a genius, a total 
genius, I cant believe we got out of that! 
Cave Inimicum
 . . . Didnt I 
say it was an Erumpent horn, didnt 
I tell him? And now his hous
e has been blown apart! Serves him right, said Ron, ex
amining his torn jeans and the 
cuts to his legs. What dyou reckon theyll do to him? 
Oh, I hope they dont kill him!
 groaned Hermione. Thats why 
I wanted the Death Eaters to get 
a glimpse of Harry before we left, 
so they knew Xenophilius hadnt been lying! 
Why hide me, though? asked Ron. 
H THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS  425  Youre supposed to be in bed with spattergroit, Ron! Theyve 
kidnapped Luna because her fath
er supported Harry! What would 
happen to your family if they knew youre with him? 
But what about 
your
 mum and dad? 
Theyre in Australia, said Hermione. They should be all right. 
They dont know anything. Youre a genius, Ron 
repeated, looking awed. 
Yeah, you are, Hermione, agreed
 Harry fervently. I dont know 
what wed do without you. She beamed, but became
 solemn at once. 
What about Luna? 
Well, if theyre telling the trut
h and shes still alive  began 
Ron. Dont say that, dont say it! sq
uealed Hermione. She must be 
alive, she must! 
Then shell be in Azkaban, I ex
pect, said Ron. Whether she 
survives the place, though
 . . . Loads dont. . . . 
She will, said Harry. He could 
not bear to contemplate the al-
ternative. Shes tough, Luna, much
 tougher than youd think. Shes 
probably teaching all the inmates about Wrackspurts and Nargles. 
I hope youre right, said Herm
ione. She passed a hand over her 
eyes. Id feel so sorry 
for Xenophilius if  
 if he hadnt just tried to sell us to the Death Eaters, yeah, 
said Ron. 
They put up the tent and retrea
ted inside it, where Ron made 
them tea. After their narrow escape
, the chilly, musty old place felt 
like home: safe, familiar, and friendly. 
Oh, why did we go there? gr
oaned Hermione after a few min-
utes silence. Harry, you were right, it was Godrics Hollow all over 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-TWO  426  again, a complete waste of time! The Deathly Hallows . . . such 
rubbish . . . although actually, 
a sudden thought seemed to have 
struck her, he might have made it
 all up, mightnt he? He probably 
doesnt believe in the Deathly Hallows 
at all, he just wanted to keep 
us talking until the Death Eaters arrived! 
I dont think so, said Ron. Its a damn sight harder making 
stuff up when youre under stress than youd think. I found that out 

when the Snatchers caught me. It wa
s much easier pretending to be 
Stan, because I knew a bit about 
him, than inventing a whole new 
person. Old Lovegood was under loads of pressure, trying to make 
sure we stayed put. I reckon he told us the truth, or what he thinks 
is the truth, just to keep us talking. Well, I dont suppose it matters,
 sighed Hermione. Even if he 
was being honest, I never heard such a lot of nonsense in all my 
life. 
Hang on, though, said Ron. T
he Chamber of Secrets was sup-
posed to be a my
th, wasnt it? But the Deathly Hallows 
cant
 exist, Ron! 
You keep saying that, but one of
 them can, said Ron. Harrys 
Invisibility Cloak  
The Tale of the Three Brothers is a story, said Hermione firmly. 
A story about how humans are frig
htened of death. If surviving 
was as simple as hiding under the In
visibility Cloak, wed have ev-
erything we need already! 
I dont know. We could do with an unbeatable wand, said Harry, 
turning the blackthorn wand he so
 disliked over in his fingers. 
Theres no such thing, Harry! 
You said there have been loads of wands  the Deathstick and 
whatever they were called  
THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS  427  All right, even if you want to ki
d yourself the Elder Wands real, 
what about the Resurrection Stone?
 Her fingers sketched quotation marks around the name, and her 
tone dripped sarcasm. No magic 
can raise the dead, 
and thats that! When my wand connected with 
You-Know-Whos, it made my 
mum and dad appear . . 
. and Cedric . . . 
But they werent really back fr
om the dead, were
 they? said 
Hermione. Those kinds of  of pa
le imitations arent the same as 
truly bringing someone back to life. 
But she, the girl in the tale, didnt really come back, did she? The 
story says that once people are de
ad, they belong with the dead. But 
the second brother still got to see her and talk to her, didnt he? He 
even lived with her 
for a while. . . . 
He saw concern and something less
 easily definable in Hermiones 
expression. Then, as she glanced at 
Ron, Harry realized that it was 
fear: He had scared her with his talk of living with dead people. 
So that Peverell bloke whos buried in Godrics Hollow, he said 
hastily, trying to sound robustly
 sane, you dont know anything 
about him, then? 
No, she replied, looking relieved
 at the change of subject. I 
looked him up after I saw the mark
 on his grave; if hed been any-
one famous or done anything importan
t, Im sure hed be in one of 
our books. The only place Ive mana
ged to find the name Peverell 
is Natures Nobility: A Wizarding Genealogy.
 I borrowed it from 
Kreacher, she explained as Ron ra
ised his eyebrows. It lists the 
pure-blood families that are now extinct in the male line. Apparently 
the Peverells were one of the earliest fa
milies to vanish. 
Extinct in the male 
line? repeated Ron. 
It means the names died out, said Hermione, centuries ago, in 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-TWO  428  the case of the Peverells. They co
uld still have descendants, though, 
theyd just be called something different. 
And then it came to 
Harry in one shining piece, the memory that had stirred at the sound of the na
me Peverell: a filthy old man 
brandishing an ugly ring in the fa
ce of a Ministry official, and he 
cried aloud, Marvolo Gaunt! 
Sorry? said Ron an
d Hermione together. Marvolo Gaunt! You-Know-Whos grandfather! In the Pensieve! 
With Dumbledore! Marvolo Gaunt sa
id he was descended from the 
Peverells! Ron and Hermione looked bewildered. The ring, the ring that beca
me the Horcrux, Marvolo Gaunt 
said it had the Peverell coat of arms
 on it! I saw him waving it in the 
bloke from the Ministrys face, he 
nearly shoved it
 up his nose! 
The Peverell coat of arms? said Hermione sharply. Could you 
see what it l
ooked like? Not really, said Harry, trying to remember. There was nothing 
fancy on there, as far as I could 
see; maybe a few scratches. I only 
ever saw it really close up af
ter it had been cracked open. Harry saw Hermiones comprehension in the sudden widening of 
her eyes. Ron was looking from one to the other, astonished. 
Blimey . . . You reckon it was th
is sign again? The sign of the 
Hallows? 
Why not? said Harry excitedly. Marvolo Gaunt was an igno-
rant old git who lived like a pig, 
all he cared about was his ancestry. 
If that ring had been passed down through the centuries, he might 
not have known what it really wa
s. There were no books in that 
house, and trust me, he wasnt the ty
pe to read fairy tales to his kids. 
Hed have loved to think the scratc
hes on the stone were a coat of 
THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS  429  arms, because as far as he was 
concerned, having pure blood made 
you practically royal. 
Yes . . . and thats all very interesting, said Hermione cautiously, 
but Harry, if youre
 thinking what I th
ink youre think  Well, why not? 
Why not
? said Harry, abandoning caution. It 
was a stone, wasnt it?
 He looked at Ron for support. What if it 
was the Resurrection Stone? 
Rons mouth fell open. 
Blimey  but would it still wo
rk if Dumbledore broke  ? 
Work? Work
? Ron, it never worked! 
Theres no such thing as a 
Resurrection Stone
! Hermione had leapt to her feet, 
looking exasperated and angry. Harry, youre trying to fit everything into the Hallows story  
Fit everything in
? he repeated. Hermione, it fits of its own ac-
cord! I know the sign of the Deat
hly Hallows was on that stone! 
Gaunt said he was descen
ded from the Peverells! 
A minute ago you told us you 
never saw the mark on the stone 
properly! Where dyou reckon the ring is now? Ron asked Harry. What 
did Dumbledore do with it after he broke it open? 
But Harrys imagination was racing
 ahead, far beyond Ron and 
Hermiones. . . . 
Three objects, or Hallows, which, if united, will make the possessor 
master of Death . . . Master . . . Conqueror . . . Vanquisher . . . The last 
enemy that shall be 
destroyed is death. . . . And he saw himself, possessor of
 the Hallows, facing Volde-
mort, whose Horcruxes were no match . . . 
Neither can live while 
the other survives. . . . Was this the answer? Hallows versus Hor-
cruxes? Was there a way, after all,
 to ensure that he was the one 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-TWO  430  who triumphed? If he were the 
master of the Deathly Hallows, 
would he be safe? 
Harry? But he scarcely heard Hermione: He had pulled out his Invisibil-
ity Cloak and was running it throug
h his fingers, the cloth supple 
as water, light as air. He had ne
ver seen anything to equal it in 
his nearly seven years in the Wizarding world. The Cloak was ex-

actly what Xenophilius had described: 
A cloak that really and truly 
renders the wearer completely invisi
ble, and endures eternally, giving 
constant and impenetrable concealmen
t, no matter what spells are cast 
at it. . . . And then, with a gasp, he remembered  Dumbledore had my Cloak th
e night my parents died! 
His voice shook and he could feel th
e color in his face, but he did 
not care. 
My mum told Sirius that Dumbledore borrowed the Cloak! This 
is why! He wanted to examine it, because he thought it was the third 
Hallow! Ignotus Peverell is buried 
in Godrics Hollow. . . . Harry 
was walking blindly around the t
ent, feeling as though great new 
vistas of truth were opening all around him. Hes my ancestor! Im 

descended from the third brother! It all makes sense! 
He felt armed in certainty, in his 
belief in the Hallows, as if the 
mere idea of possessing them was 
giving him protection, and he felt 
joyous as he turned back to the other two. 
Harry, said Hermione again, but he was busy undoing the 
pouch around his neck, his fingers shaking hard. Read it, he told her, pushing 
his mothers letter into her hand. 
Read it! Dumbledore had the Cloak,
 Hermione! Why else would he 
want it? He didnt need a Cloak, 
he could perform a Disillusionment 
THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS  431  Charm so powerful that he made 
himself completely invisible with-
out one! Something fell to the floor and ro
lled, glittering, under a chair: 
He had dislodged the Sn
itch when he pulled out the letter. He 
stooped to pick it up, and then the 
newly tapped spring of fabulous 
discoveries threw him another gift, and shock and wonder erupted 
inside him so that he shouted out. 
ITS IN HERE! He left me the 
ring  its in the Snitch! 
You  you reckon? 
He could not understand why Ron looked taken aback. It was 
so obvious, so clear to Harry: Everything fit, everything. . . . His 
Cloak was the third Hallow, and 
when he discovered how to open 
the Snitch he would have the seco
nd, and then all he needed to do 
was find the first Hallow, 
the Elder Wand, and then  But it was as though a curtain fe
ll on a lit stage: All his excite-
ment, all his hope and happiness we
re extinguished at a stroke, and 
he stood alone in the darkness, and the glorious spell was broken. Thats what hes after. 
The change in his voice made
 Ron and Hermione look even 
more scared. 
You-Know-Whos after the Elder Wand. He turned his back on their stra
ined, incredulous faces. He knew 
it was the truth. It all made sens
e. Voldemort was not seeking a new 
wand; he was seeking an old wand
, a very old wand indeed. Harry 
walked to the entrance of the te
nt, forgetting about Ron and Her-
mione as he looked out into
 the night, thinking. . . . Voldemort had been raised in 
a Muggle orphanage. Nobody 
could have told him 
The Tales of Beedle the Bard
 when he was a 
child, any more than Harry had 
heard them. Hardly any wizards 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-TWO  432  believed in the Deathly Hallows. Was it likely that Voldemort knew 
about them? 
Harry gazed into the darkness. 
. . . If Voldemort had known 
about the Deathly Hallows, surely
 he would have sought them, 
done anything to possess them: th
ree objects that made the pos-
sessor master of Death? If he had known about the Deathly Hal-
lows, he might not have needed Horc
ruxes in the first place. Didnt 
the simple fact that he had take
n a Hallow, and turned it into a 
Horcrux, demonstrate that he did not know this last great Wiz-
arding secret? 
Which meant that Voldemort sought the Elder Wand without 
realizing its full power, without understanding that it was one of 
three . . . for the wand was the Hallow that could not be hidden, 
whose existence was best known. . . . 
The bloody trail of the Elder 
Wand is splattered across th
e pages of Wizarding history
 . . . Harry watched the cloudy sky, curv
es of smoke-gray and silver 
sliding over the face of the whit
e moon. He felt lightheaded with 
amazement at his discoveries. 
He turned back into the tent. It
 was a shock to 
see Ron and Hermi-
one standing exactly where he had 
left them, Hermione still holding 
Lilys letter, Ron at her side look
ing slightly anxious. Didnt they 
realize how far they had travel
ed in the last few minutes? 
This is it, Harry said, trying to 
bring them inside the glow of his 
own astonished certainty. This explains everything. The Deathly 
Hallows are real, and Ive got one  maybe two  
He held up the Snitch. 
 and You-Know-Whos chasing th
e third, but he doesnt real-
ize . . . he just thinks its a powerful wand  
Harry, said Hermione, moving across to him and handing him 
THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS  433  back Lilys letter, Im sorry, but 
I think youve got 
this wrong, all 
wrong. But dont you see? It all fits  
No, it doesnt, she said. It 
doesnt,
 Harry, youre just getting 
carried away. Please, she said as 
he started to speak, please just 
answer me this: If the Deathly 
Hallows really existed, and Dum-
bledore knew about them, knew th
at the person who possessed all 
three of them would be
 master of Death  
Harry, why wouldnt 
he have told you? Why? 
He had his answer ready. 
But you said it, Hermione! You
ve got to find out about them 
for yourself! It
s a Quest! 
But I only said that to try and persuade you to come to the 
Lovegoods! cried Hermione in exasperation. I didnt really be-
lieve it! 
Harry took no notice. 
Dumbledore usually let me find ou
t stuff for myself. He let me try 
my strength, take risks. This feels like the kind of thing hed do. 
Harry, this isnt a game, this isnt 
practice! This is the real thing, 
and Dumbledore left you very clear instructions: Find and destroy 

the Horcruxes! That symbol doesn
t mean anything, forget the 
Deathly Hallows, we cant afford to get sidetracked  
Harry was barely listening to her. 
He was turning the Snitch over 
and over in his hands, half expecting it to break open, to reveal the 
Resurrection Stone, to prove to He
rmione that he was right, that 
the Deathly Hallows were real. 
She appealed to Ron. 
You dont believe in this, do you? Harry looked up. Ron hesitated. 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-TWO  434  I dunno . . . I mean . . . bits of it sort of fit together, said Ron 
awkwardly. But when you look at 
the whole thing . . . He took a 
deep breath. I think were supposed 
to get rid of Horcruxes, Harry. 
Thats what Dumbledore told us to
 do. Maybe . . . maybe we should 
forget about this 
Hallows business. 
Thank you, Ron, said Hermio
ne. Ill take first watch. 
And she strode past Harry and sa
t down in the tent entrance, 
bringing the action to a fierce full stop. 
But Harry hardly slept that night.
 The idea of the Deathly Hal-
lows had taken possession of him, 
and he could not rest while agi-
tating thoughts whirled through hi
s mind: the wand, the stone, and 
the Cloak, if he could just
 possess them all. . . . 
I open at the close.
 . . . But what was the 
close? Why couldnt he 
have the stone now? If only he ha
d the stone, he could ask Dumble-
dore these questions in person . . . and Harry murmured words to 

the Snitch in the darkness, trying
 everything, even Parseltongue, 
but the golden ball would not open. . . . 
And the wand, the Elder Wand, 
where was that hidden? Where 
was Voldemort searching now? Ha
rry wished his scar would burn 
and show him Voldemorts thoughts, because for the first time ever, 

he and Voldemort were united in 
wanting the very same thing. . . . 
Hermione would not like that idea, 
of course. . . . But then, she did 
not believe . . . Xenophilius had been right, in a way . . . 
Limited.
 Narrow. Close-minded.
 The truth was that she 
was scared of the idea 
of the Deathly Hallows, especially
 of the Resurrection Stone . . . 
and Harry pressed his mouth again to
 the Snitch, kissing it, nearly 
swallowing it, but the cold 
metal did not yield. . . . 
It was nearly dawn when he reme
mbered Luna, alone in a cell in 
Azkaban, surrounded by dementors,
 and he suddenly felt ashamed 
THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS  435  of himself. He had forgotten all ab
out her in his feverish contempla-
tion of the Hallows. If
 only they could resc
ue her; but dementors 
in those numbers would be virtually unassailable. Now he came 
to think about it, he had not yet 
tried casting a Patronus with the 
blackthorn wand. . . . He must try that in the morning. . . . If only there was a way of 
getting a better wand . . . And desire for the Elder Wand, 
the Deathstick, unbeatable, in-
vincible, swallowed him once more. . . . 
They packed up the tent next
 morning and moved on through 
a dreary shower of rain. The downpour pursued them to the coast, 

where they pitched the tent that night, and persisted through the 
whole week, through sodden landsc
apes that Harry found bleak and 
depressing. He could think only of
 the Deathly Hallows. It was as 
though a flame had been lit inside him that nothing, not Hermiones 
flat disbelief nor Rons persistent
 doubts, could extinguish. And yet 
the fiercer the longing for the Hallows burned inside him, the less 
joyful it made him. He blamed Ron and Hermione: Their deter-
mined indifference was as bad as th
e relentless rain for dampening 
his spirits, but neither could erod
e his certainty, which remained 
absolute. Harrys belief in and longing for the Hallows consumed 

him so much that he felt quite isolated from the other two and their 
obsession with the Horcruxes. 
Obsession? said Hermione in a 
low fierce voice, when Harry 
was careless enough to use the wo
rd one evening, after Hermione 
had told him off for his lack of inte
rest in locating more Horcruxes. 
Were not the ones with an obsession, Harry! Were the ones trying 
to do what Dumbledore wanted us to do! 
But he was impervious to the veiled criticism. Dumbledore 
had left the sign of the Hallows 
for Hermione to decipher, and he 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-TWO  436  had also, Harry remained convince
d of it, left the Resurrection 
Stone hidden in the golden Snitch. 
Neither can live while the other 
survives. . . . 
master of Death
 . . . Why didnt Ron and Hermione 
understand? 
The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death,
 Harry quoted 
calmly. 
I thought it was You-Know-Who we were supposed to be fight-
ing? Hermione retorted, and Harry gave up on her. 
Even the mystery of the silver doe,
 which the other two insisted on 
discussing, seemed less important to Harry now, a vaguely interesting 

sideshow. The only other thing that mattered to him was that his scar 
had begun to prickle again, although
 he did all he could to hide this 
fact from the other two. He soug
ht solitude whenever it happened, 
but was disappointed by what he saw. The visions he and Voldemort 
were sharing had changed in quality; they had become blurred, shift-

ing as though they were moving in and out of focus. Harry was just 
able to make out the indistinct features of an object that looked like 
a skull, and something like a mountain that was more shadow than 
substance. Used to images sharp 
as reality, Harry was disconcerted 
by the change. He was worried th
at the connection 
between himself 
and Voldemort had been damaged, a connection that he both feared 
and, whatever he had told He
rmione, prized. Somehow Harry con-
nected these unsatisfying, vague imag
es with the destruction of his 
wand, as if it was the blackthorn wa
nds fault that he could no longer 
see into Voldemorts mind as well as before. 
As the weeks crept on, Harry could not help but notice, even 
through his new self-absorption, 
that Ron seemed to be taking 
charge. Perhaps because he was determined to make up for having  
 THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS  437  walked out on them, perhaps beca
use Harrys descent into listless-
ness galvanized his dormant leadership qualities, Ron was the one 

now encouraging and exhorting 
the other two into action. 
Three Horcruxes left, he kept 
saying. We need a plan of ac-
tion, come on! Where havent we l
ooked? Lets go through it again. 
The orphanage . . . Diagon Alley, Hogwarts, the Ri
ddle House, Borgin and Burkes, 
Albania, every place that they knew Tom Riddle had ever lived or 
worked, visited or murdered, Ro
n and Hermione raked over them 
again, Harry joining in only to stop Hermione pestering him. He 

would have been happy to sit alone 
in silence, trying to read Volde-
morts thoughts, to find out mo
re about the Elder Wand, but Ron 
insisted on journeying to ever mo
re unlikely places simply, Harry 
was aware, to keep them moving. 
You never know, was Rons cons
tant refrain. Upper Flagley is 
a Wizarding village, he mightve wa
nted to live there. Lets go and 
have a poke around. 
These frequent forays into Wi
zarding territory brought them within occasional si
ght of Snatchers. 
Some of them are supposed to be 
as bad as Death Eaters, said 
Ron. The lot that got me were a bit pathetic, but Bill reckons some 
of them are really dangerous. They said on 
Potterwatch
  
On what? said Harry. 

Potterwatch, didnt I tell you thats what it was called? The pro-
gram I keep trying to get on the radio, the only one that tells the 
truth about whats going on! Nearly
 all the programs are following 
You-Know-Whos line, all except 
Potterwatch. I really want you to 
hear it, but its tric
ky tuning in. . . .  CHAPTER  TWENTY-TWO  438  Ron spent evening after evening using his wand to beat out vari-
ous rhythms on top of the wireless
 while the dials whirled. Occa-
sionally they would catch snatches 
of advice on how 
to treat dragon 
pox, and once a few bars of A Cauldron Full of Hot Strong Love. 
While he tapped, Ron continued to
 try to hit on the correct pass-
word, muttering strings of ra
ndom words under his breath. 
Theyre normally some
thing to do with the 
Order, he told them. 
Bill had a real knack for guessing
 them. Im bound to get one in 
the end. . . . 
But not until March did luck favo
r Ron at last. Harry was sitting 
in the tent entrance, on guard duty
, staring idly at a clump of grape 
hyacinths that had forced their wa
y through the chilly ground, when 
Ron shouted excitedly from inside the tent. 
Ive got it, Ive got it! Password was Albus! Get in here, Harry! Roused for the first time in days
 from his contemplation of the 
Deathly Hallows, Harry hurried back
 inside the tent to find Ron 
and Hermione kneeling on the floor beside the little radio. Hermi-
one, who had been polishing the sword of Gryffindor just for some-
thing to do, was sitting open-mouthed, staring at the tiny speaker, 
from which a most famili
ar voice was issuing. . . . apologize for our temporary absence from the airwaves, 
which was due to a number of ho
use calls in our area by those 
charming Death Eaters. 
But thats Lee Jord
an! said Hermione. I know! beamed Ron. Cool, eh? . . . now found ourselves anothe
r secure location, Lee was say-
ing, and Im pleased to tell
 you that two of our regular 
contributors have joined me here
 this evening. Evening, boys! Hi. THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS  439  Evening, River. River, thats Lee, Ron explained. Theyve all got code names, 
but you can usually tell  Shh! said Hermione. 
But before we hear from Royal 
and Romulus, Lee 
went on, lets 
take a moment to report
 those deaths that the 
Wizarding Wireless 
Network News and 
Daily Prophet dont think important enough to 
mention. It is with gr
eat regret that we info
rm our listeners of the 
murders of Ted Tonks and Dirk Cresswell. 
Harry felt a sick, swooping in his 
belly. He, Ron, and Hermione 
gazed at one another in horror. 
A goblin by the name of Gornuk was also killed. It is believed 
that Muggle-born Dean
 Thomas and a second goblin, both be-
lieved to have been traveling wi
th Tonks, Cresswell, and Gor-
nuk, may have escaped. If Dean is
 listening, or if anyone has any 
knowledge of his whereabouts, his 
parents and sisters are desperate for news. Meanwhile, in Gaddley, a Muggle 
family of five has been found 
dead in their home. Muggle authorities are attributing the deaths 
to a gas leak, but members of the 
Order of the Phoenix inform me 
that it was the Killing Curse  more
 evidence, as if it were needed, 
of the fact that Muggle slaughter is becoming little more than a 
recreational sport under the new regime. 
Finally, we regret to inform ou
r listeners that the remains of 
Bathilda Bagshot have been discovered in Godrics Hollow. The 
evidence is that she died several months ago. The Order of the Phoe-
nix informs us that her body showed
 unmistakable signs of injuries 
inflicted by Dark Magic. 
Listeners, Id like to invite yo
u now to join us in a minutes 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-TWO  440  silence in memory of Ted Tonks, Dirk Cresswell, Bathilda Bagshot, 
Gornuk, and the unnamed, but no less regretted, Muggles murdered 

by the Death Eaters. 
Silence fell, and Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione did not speak. Half 
of Harry yearned to hear more, half of him was afraid of what might 
come next. It was the first time he had felt fully connected to the 
outside world for a long time. 
Thank you, said Lees voice. A
nd now we turn to regular con-
tributor Royal, for an update on
 how the new Wizarding order is 
affecting the Muggle world. 
Thanks, River, said an unmist
akable voice, deep, measured, 
reassuring. Kingsley! burst out Ron. 
We know! said Hermione, hushing him. 
Muggles remain ignorant of th
e source of their suffering as 
they continue to sustain heavy casu
alties, said Kingsley. However, 
we continue to hear truly inspirat
ional stories of wizards and witches 
risking their own safety to protect Muggle friends and neighbors, 
often without the Muggles knowledge.
 Id like to appeal to all our 
listeners to emulate their example, 
perhaps by casting a protective 
charm over any Muggle dwellings in
 your street. Many lives could 
be saved if such simple measures are taken. 
And what would you say, Royal, to those listeners who reply that 
in these dangerous times, it should
 be Wizards first? asked Lee. 
Id say that its one short step from Wizards first to Purebloods 
first, and then to Death Eaters,
 replied Kingsley. Were all hu-
man, arent we? Every human life is worth the same, and worth 
saving. 
Excellently put, Royal, and youve got my vote for Minister of 
THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS  441  Magic if ever we get out of this me
ss, said Lee. And now, over to 
Romulus for our popular fe
ature Pals of Potter. 
Thanks, River, said another very
 familiar voice; Ron started to 
speak, but Hermione forest
alled him in a whisper. 
We know its Lupin
! Romulus, do you maintain, as you have every time youve ap-
peared on our program, that 
Harry Potter is still alive? 
I do, said Lupin firmly. There is no doubt at all in my mind 
that his death would be proclaimed
 as widely as possible by the 
Death Eaters if it had happened, be
cause it would strike a deadly 
blow at the morale of those resi
sting the new regime. The Boy Who 
Lived remains a symbol of everything for which we are fighting: 
the triumph of good, the power of
 innocence, the need to keep 
resisting. 
A mixture of gratitude and shame welled up in Harry. Had Lupin 
forgiven him, then, for the terribl
e things he had said when they 
had last met? 
And what would you say to Harr
y if you knew he was listening, 
Romulus? 
Id tell him were all with him in
 spirit, said Lupin, then hesi-
tated slightly. And Id tell him to
 follow his instincts, which are 
good and nearly always right. Harry looked at Hermione, whos
e eyes were full of tears. 
Nearly always right, she repeated. 
Oh, didnt I tell you? said Ron in
 surprise. Bill told me Lupins 
living with Tonks again! And appa
rently shes getting pretty big 
too. . . . 
. . . and our usual update on th
ose friends of Harry Potters who 
are suffering for their allegiance? Lee was saying. 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-TWO  442  Well, as regular listeners will 
know, several of the more outspo-
ken supporters of Harry Potter ha
ve now been imprisoned, includ-
ing Xenophilius Lovegood, erstwhile editor of 
The Quibbler,
 said 
Lupin. At least hes still al
ive! muttered Ron. 
We have also heard within th
e last few hours that Rubeus 
Hagrid  all three of them gasped, and so nearly missed the rest 

of the sentence  well-known ga
mekeeper at Hogwarts School, 
has narrowly escaped arrest within
 the grounds of Hogwarts, where 
he is rumored to have hosted a Support Harry Potter party in his 

house. However, Hagrid was not taken into custody, and is, we 
believe, on the run. 
I suppose it helps, when escaping
 from Death Eaters, if youve 
got a sixteen-foot-high ha
lf brother? asked Lee. 
It would tend to give you an edge, agreed Lupin gravely. May 
I just add that while we here at 
Potterwatch applaud Hagrids spirit, 
we would urge even the most devo
ted of Harrys supporters against 
following Hagrids lead. Support
 Harry Potter parties are unwise 
in the present climate. 
Indeed they are, Romulus, said
 Lee, so we suggest that you 
continue to show your devotion to the man with the lightning scar 
by listening to 
Potterwatch
! And now lets move to news concerning 
the wizard who is proving just as elusive as Harry Potter. We like 

to refer to him as the Chief Death 
Eater, and here to give his views 
on some of the more insane rumors
 circulating about him, Id like 
to introduce a new corr
espondent: Rodent. Rodent
? said yet another familiar
 voice, and Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione cried 
out together: 
Fred! THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS  443  No  is it George? 
Its Fred, I think, said Ron, leaning in closer, as whichever twin 
it was said, 
Im not being Rodent, no way,
 I told you I wanted to be 
Rapier! Oh, all right then. Rapier, coul
d you please give us your take 
on the various stories weve been
 hearing about the Chief Death 
Eater? Yes, River, I can, said Fred. As our listeners will know, unless 
theyve taken refuge at the bottom 
of a garden pond or somewhere 
similar, You-Know-Whos strategy of remaining in the shadows is 
creating a nice little climate of pa
nic. Mind you, if all the alleged 
sightings of him are genuine, 
we must have a good nineteen You-
Know-Whos running around the place. 
Which suits him, of course, said
 Kingsley. The air of mystery 
is creating more terror than
 actually showing himself. Agreed, said Fred. So, people
, lets try and calm down a bit. 
Things are bad enough without invent
ing stuff as well. For instance, 
this new idea that You-Know-Who can kill with a single glance from 
his eyes. Thats a 
basilisk, listeners. One simple test: Check whether 
the thing thats glaring at you has got 
legs. If it has, its safe to look 
into its eyes, although if it real
ly is You-Know-Who, thats still 
likely to be the last thing you ever do. 
For the first time in weeks and weeks, Harry was laughing: He 
could feel the weight 
of tension leaving him. And the rumors that he keep
s being sighted abroad? asked 
Lee. Well, who wouldnt want a nice 
little holiday after all the hard 
work hes been putting in? asked 
Fred. Point is, people, dont get 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-TWO  444  lulled into a false sense of security
, thinking hes out of the country. 
Maybe he is, maybe he isnt, but th
e fact remains he can move faster 
than Severus Snape confronted wi
th shampoo when he wants to, 
so dont count on him being a long way away if youre planning on 
taking any risks. I never thought I
d hear myself say it, but safety 
first! 
Thank you very much 
for those wise words, Rapier, said Lee. 
Listeners, that brings us to the end of another 
Potterwatch.
 We dont 
know when it will be possible to br
oadcast again, but you can be sure 
we shall be back. Keep twiddling th
ose dials: The next password will 
be Mad-Eye. Keep each other safe: Keep faith. Good night. The radios dial twirled and the lights behind the tuning panel 
went out. Harry, Ron, and Hermio
ne were still beaming. Hearing 
familiar, friendly voic
es was an extraordina
ry tonic; Harry had be-
come so used to their isolation he
 had nearly forgotten that other 
people were resisting Voldemort. 
It was like waking from a long 
sleep. Good, eh? said Ron happily. 
Brilliant, said Harry. 
Its so brave of them, sighed
 Hermione admiringly. If they 
were found . . . Well, they keep on the move, do
nt they? said Ron. Like us. 
But did you hear what Fred sa
id? asked Harry excitedly; now 
the broadcast was over, his though
ts turned again toward his all-
consuming obsession. Hes abroad
! Hes still looking for the 
Wand, I knew it! Harry  Come on, Hermione, why are you so determined not to admit 
it? Vol  
THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS  445  HARRY, NO! 
 demorts after the Elder Wand! 

The names Taboo! Ron bellowed
, leaping to his feet as a loud 
crack sounded outside the tent. I 
told you, Harry, I told you, we 
cant say it anymore  weve got to put the protection back around 
us  quickly  its how they find  
But Ron stopped talking, and Harry knew why. The Sneakoscope 
on the table had lit up and begun to spin; they could hear voices 
coming nearer and nearer: rough, excited voices. Ron pulled the De-
luminator out of his pocket and cl
icked it: Their lamps went out. 
Come out of there with your ha
nds up! came a rasping voice 
through the darkness. We know you
re in there! Youve got half a 
dozen wands pointing at you and we dont care who we curse! C H A P T E R  T W E N T Y - T H R E E   446  MALFOY MANOR 
   arry looked around at the ot
her two, now mere outlines 
in the darkness. He saw Hermione point her wand, not 
toward the outside, but into his 
face; there was a bang, a burst of 
white light, and he buckled in agon
y, unable to see. He could feel 
his face swelling rapidly under 
his hands as heavy footfalls sur-
rounded him. Get up, vermin. Unknown hands dragged Harry roughly off the ground. Before 
he could stop them, someone ha
d rummaged through his pockets 
and removed the blackthorn wand
. Harry clutched at his excruci-
atingly painful face, which felt unre
cognizable beneath his fingers, 
tight, swollen, and puffy as thou
gh he had suffered some violent 
allergic reaction. His eyes had been reduced to slits through which 

he could barely see; his
 glasses fell off as he was bundled out of the 
tent; all he could make out were th
e blurred shapes of four or five 
people wrestling Ron and 
Hermione outside too. 
H MALFOY  MANOR  447  Get  off  her! Ron shouted.
 There was the unmistakable 
sound of knuckles hitting flesh: 
Ron grunted in pain and Hermione 
screamed, No! Leave him alone, leave him alone! Your boyfriends going to have 
worse than that done to him if 
hes on my list, said the horribly 
familiar, rasping voice. Delicious 
girl . . . What a treat . . . I do enjoy the softness of the skin. . . . 
Harrys stomach turned over. He 
knew who this was: Fenrir 
Greyback, the werewolf who was 
permitted to wear Death Eater 
robes in return for 
his hired savagery. 
Search the tent! sa
id another voice. Harry was thrown facedown onto 
the ground. A thud told him 
that Ron had been cast down besi
de him. They co
uld hear foot-
steps and crashes; the men were pus
hing over chairs inside the tent 
as they searched. 
Now, lets see who weve got, said Greybacks gloating voice 
from overhead, and Harry was rolled over onto his back. A beam 
of wandlight fell into his fa
ce and Greyback laughed. 
Ill be needing butterbeer to 
wash this one down. What hap-
pened to you, ugly? 
Harry did not answer immediately. 

I said, repeated Greyback, and Harry received a blow to the 
diaphragm that made him double over in pain, what happened 
to you? 
Stung, Harry muttered. Been stung. 
Yeah, looks like it, said a second voice. 
Whats your name? snarled Greyback. 
Dudley, said Harry. 
And your first name? 

I  Vernon. Vernon Dudley. 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-THREE  448  Check the list, Scabior, said
 Greyback, and Harry heard him 
move sideways to look down at Ron,
 instead. And what about you, 
ginger? 
Stan Shunpike, said Ron. 
Like ell you are, said the man 
called Scabior. We know Stan 
Shunpike, es put a bi
t of work our way. There was another thud. 

Ib Bardy, said Ron, and Har
ry could tell that his mouth was 
full of blood. Bardy Weadley. 
A Weasley? rasped Greyback. So youre related to blood trai-
tors even if youre not a Mudblood.
 And lastly, your pretty little 
friend . . . The relish in his voice made Harrys flesh crawl. 
Easy, Greyback, said Scabior over the jeering of the others. 
Oh, Im not going to bite just ye
t. Well see if shes a bit quicker at remembering her name than 
Barny. Who are you, girly? 
Penelope Clearwater, said He
rmione. She sounded terrified, 
but convincing. 
Whats your blood status? Half-blood, said Hermione. 
Easy enough to check, said Scabior.
 But the ole lot of em look 
like they could still be ogwarts age  
Web lebt, said Ron. 
Left, ave you, ginger? said 
Scabior. And you decided to go 
camping? And you thought, just 
for a laugh, youd use the Dark 
Lords name? 
Nod a laugh, said Ron. Aggiden. 
Accident? There was mo
re jeering laughter. 
You know who used to like using the Dark Lords name,  
 MALFOY  MANOR  449  Weasley? growled Greyback. The
 Order of the Phoenix. Mean 
anything to you? 
Doh. 
Well, they dont show the Dark Lord proper respect, so the 
names been Tabooed. A few Orde
r members have been tracked that 
way. Well see. Bind them up with the other two prisoners! Someone yanked Harry up by the 
hair, dragged him a short way, 
pushed him down into a sitting position, then started binding him 
back-to-back with othe
r people. Harry was stil
l half blind, barely 
able to see anything 
through his puffed-up eyes. When at last the 
man tying them had walked away
, Harry whispered to the other 
prisoners. 
Anyone still got a wand? 
No, said Ron and Hermione from either side of him. 
This is all my fault. I said the name, Im sorry  

Harry? It was a new, but familiar, voice, and it came from directly behind 
Harry, from the person tied to Hermiones left. 
Dean? It is you! If they find out who th
eyve got  ! Theyre Snatchers, 
theyre only looking for trua
nts to sell for gold  
Not a bad little haul for one 
night, Greyback was saying, as 
a pair of hobnailed boots marched close by Harry and they heard 

more crashes from inside the tent
. A Mudblood, a runaway goblin, 
and three truants. You checked their 
names on the list yet, Scabior? 
he roared. 
Yeah. Theres no Vernon Dudley on ere, Greyback. 
Interesting, said Greyba
ck. Thats interesting. 
 CHAPTER  TWENTY-THREE  450  He crouched down beside Harry, 
who saw, through the infini-
tesimal gap left between his swolle
n eyelids, a face
 covered in mat-
ted gray hair and whiskers, with pointed brown teeth and sores at 
the corners of his mouth. Greyback
 smelled as he had done at the 
top of the tower where Dumbledore 
had died: of dirt, sweat, and 
blood. So you arent wanted, then, Vernon
? Or are you on that list un-
der a different name? What Hous
e were you in at Hogwarts? 
Slytherin, said Ha
rry automatically. 
Funny ow they all thinks we want
s to ear that, jeered Scabior 
out of the shadows. But none 
of em can tell us where the com-
mon room is. 
Its in the dungeons, said Harry clearly. You enter through the wall. Its full of skulls and stuff and its under the lake, so the lights 
all green. There was a short pause. 
Well, well, looks like we really ave caught a little Slytherin, said 
Scabior. Good for you, Vernon, cause there aint a lot of Mudblood 
Slytherins. Whos your father? 
He works at the Ministry, Harry 
lied. He knew that his whole 
story would collapse with the smallest investigation, but on the other 
hand, he only had until his face re
gained its usual appearance before 
the game was up in any case. Department of Magical Accidents 

and Catastrophes. 
You know what, Greyback, said Scabior. I think there 
is a 
Dudley in there. 
Harry could barely breathe: Coul
d luck, sheer luck, get them safely out of this? 

 MALFOY  MANOR  451  Well, well, said Greyback, 
and Harry could hear the tiniest 
note of trepidation in that callous
 voice, and knew
 that Greyback 
was wondering whether he had indeed just attacked and bound the 
son of a Ministry official. Harry
s heart was pounding against the 
ropes around his ribs; he would not have been surprised to know 
that Greyback could see it. If you
re telling the truth, ugly, youve 
got nothing to fear from a trip to the Ministry. I expect your fatherll 

reward us just for picking you up. 
But, said Harry, his mouth bone dry, if you just let us  Hey! came a shout from inside
 the tent. Look at this, Grey-
back! A dark figure came bustling to
ward them, and Harry saw a glint 
of silver in the light of their wa
nds. They had found Gryffindors 
sword. Ve-e-ry nice, said Greyback appr
eciatively, taking it from his 
companion. Oh, very nice indeed
. Looks goblin-made, that. Where 
did you get something like this? 
Its my fathers, Harry lied, hoping against hope that it was too 
dark for Greyback to see the name
 etched just below the hilt. We 
borrowed it to cut firewood  ang on a minute, Greyback
! Look at this, in the 
Prophet! As Scabior said it, Harrys scar
, which was stretched tight across 
his distended forehead, burned sava
gely. More clearly than he could 
make out anything around him, he
 saw a towering 
building, a grim 
fortress, jet-black and forbidding
; Voldemorts thoughts had sud-
denly become razor-sharp again; he
 was gliding toward the gigantic 
building with a sense of calm
ly euphoric purpose. . . . 
So close . . . So close . . .  CHAPTER  TWENTY-THREE  452  With a huge effort of will Harry cl
osed his mind to Voldemorts 
thoughts, pulling himself back to wh
ere he sat, tied to Ron, Hermi-
one, Dean, and Griphook in the 
darkness, listening to Greyback 
and Scabior. 

ermione Granger, Scabior was saying, 
the Mudblood who is 
known to be traveling with arry Potter.
 
Harrys scar burned in the silence, but he made a supreme ef-
fort to keep himself present, not to
 slip into Voldemorts mind. He 
heard the creak of Greybacks boots as he crouched down in front 
of Hermione. You know what, little
 girly? This picture looks a hell of a lot 
like you. 
It isnt! It isnt me! 
Hermiones terrified squeak was as good as a confession. . . . 
known to be traveling with Harry Potter,
 repeated Grey-
back quietly. A stillness had settled over the sc
ene. Harrys scar was exquisitely 
painful, but he struggled with all his strength against the pull of 
Voldemorts thoughts: It had never been so important to remain in 
his own right mind. 
Well, this changes things, doesnt it? whispered Greyback. No-
body spoke: Harry sensed the gang of Snatchers watching, frozen, 
and felt Hermiones arm trembling against his. Greyback got up and 

took a couple of steps to where 
Harry sat, crouchin
g down again to stare closely at his 
misshapen features. 
Whats that on your forehead, Vern
on? he asked softly, his breath 
foul in Harrys nostrils as he presse
d a filthy finger to the taut scar. 
Dont touch it! Harry yelled; 
he could not stop himself; he 
thought he might be sick
 from the pain of it. 
MALFOY  MANOR  453  I thought you wore glasses, Potter? breathed Greyback. 
I found glasses! yelped one of
 the Snatchers skulking in the 
background. There was glasses in
 the tent, Greyback, wait  And seconds later Harrys glasses had been rammed back onto his 
face. The Snatchers were closin
g in now, peering at him. 
It is! rasped Greyback. 
Weve caught Potter! 
They all took several steps backward, stunned by what they had 
done. Harry, still fighting to re
main present inside his own split-
ting head, could think of nothing 
to say: Fragmented visions were 
breaking across the su
rface of his mind  
 He was gliding around the hi
gh walls of the black fortress  
No, he was Harry, tied up and wandless, in grave danger  
 looking up, up to the topmost window, the highest tower
  
He was Harry, and they were
 discussing his fate in low 
voices  
  Time to fly
 . . . . . . to the Ministry? To hell with the Mi
nistry, growled Greyba
ck. Theyll take 
the credit, and we wont get a look 
in. I say we take him straight to 
You-Know-Who. 
Will you summon im? ere? said Scabior, sounding awed, 
terrified. 
No, snarled Greyback, I havent got  they say hes using the 
Malfoys place as a base. Well take the boy there. 
Harry thought he knew why Grey
back was not calling Volde-
mort. The werewolf might be allowed to wear Death Eater robes 
when they wanted to use him, bu
t only Voldemorts inner circle 
were branded with the Dark Mark
: Greyback had not been granted 
this highest honor. CHAPTER  TWENTY-THREE  454  Harrys scar seared again   and he rose into the night, flying
 straight up to the window at 
the very top of the tower
  
. . . completely sure its him? Cause if it aint, Greyback, were 
dead. Whos in charge here? roared
 Greyback, covering his moment 
of inadequacy. I say thats Potter,
 and him plus his wand, thats two 
hundred thousand Galleons right ther
e! But if youre too gutless to 
come along, any of you, its all 
for me, and with any luck, Ill get 
the girl thrown in!  The window was the merest slit in the black rock, not big enough 
for a man to enter.
 . . . 
A skeletal figure was just visible through it, 
curled beneath a blanket. . . . Dead, or sleeping . . . ? All right! said Scabior. All right, were in! And what about the 
rest of em, Greyback, 
whatll we do with em? Might as well take the lot. 
Weve got two Mudbloods, thats another ten Galleons. Give me the 
sword as well. If theyre rubies, 
thats another small fortune right there. 
The prisoners were dragged to th
eir feet. Harry could hear Her-
miones breathing, fa
st and terrified. 
Grab hold and make it tight. Ill
 do Potter! said Greyback, seiz-
ing a fistful of Harrys hair; Harry 
could feel his long yellow nails 
scratching his scalp. On th
ree! One  two  three  
They Disapparated, pulling the prisoners with them. Harry strug-
gled, trying to throw off Greyback
s hand, but it was hopeless: Ron 
and Hermione were squeezed tightly 
against him on ei
ther side, he 
could not separate from the group, and as the breath was squeezed 
out of him his scar seared
 more painfully still   MALFOY  MANOR  455   as he forced himself through the slit of a window like a snake and 
landed, lightly as vapor, inside the cell-like room  The prisoners lurched into one anot
her as they landed in a coun-
try lane. Harrys eyes, still puffy, took a moment to acclimatize, then 
he saw a pair of wrought-iron gates 
at the foot of wh
at looked like a 
long drive. He experienced the tini
est trickle of relief. The worst had 
not happened yet: Voldemort was 
not here. He was, Harry knew, 
for he was fighting to resist the vi
sion, in some strange, fortresslike 
place, at the top of a tower. How long it would take Voldemort to 
get to this place, once he knew
 that Harry was here, was another 
matter. . . . One of the Snatchers strode 
to the gates and shook them. How do we get in? Theyre locked, Greyback, I cant  
blimey! He whipped his hands away in fright. The iron was contorting, 
twisting itself out of the abstra
ct furls and coils into a frighten-
ing face, which spoke in a clangi
ng, echoing voice: State your 
purpose! Weve got Potter! Greyback ro
ared triumphantly. Weve cap-
tured Harry Potter! 
The gates swung open. 
Come on! said Greyback to hi
s men, and the prisoners were 
shunted through the gates and up
 the drive, between high hedges 
that muffled their footsteps. Harry
 saw a ghostly white shape above 
him, and realized it was an albino
 peacock. He stumbled and was 
dragged onto his feet by Greyback
; now he was staggering along 
sideways, tied back-to-back to the 
four other prisoners. Closing his 
puffy eyes, he allowed the pain in 
his scar to overcome him for a  
 CHAPTER  TWENTY-THREE  456  moment, wanting to know what 
Voldemort was doing, whether he knew yet that Harr
y was caught. . . . The emaciated figure stirred beneat
h its thin blanket and rolled over 
toward him, eyes opening in a skull of a face. . . . The frail man sat up, 
great sunken eyes fixed upon him, up
on Voldemort, and then he smiled. 
Most of his teeth 
were gone. . . . So, you have come. I thought you would
 . . . 
one day. But your 
journey was pointless. I never had it.
 You lie! As Voldemorts anger throbbed 
inside him, Harrys scar threat-
ened to burst with pain, and he 
wrenched his mind back to his 
own body, fighting to remain pres
ent as the prisoners were pushed 
over gravel. 
Light spilled out over all of them. What is this? said 
a womans cold voice. 
Were here to see He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named! rasped Grey-
back. Who are you? 
You know me! There was resent
ment in the werewolfs voice. 
Fenrir Greyback! Weve 
caught Harry Potter! 
Greyback seized Harry and dragged him around to face the light, 
forcing the other prisoners 
to shuffle around too. 
I know es swollen, maam, but its im! piped up Scabior. If 
you look a bit closer, youll see is sc
ar. And this ere, see the girl? The 
Mudblood whos been traveling around with im, maam. Theres no 
doubt its im, and weve got i
s wand as well! Ere, maam  
Through his puffy eyelids Harry saw Narcissa Malfoy scrutiniz-
ing his swollen face. Scabior thrust 
the blackthorn wand at her. She 
raised her eyebrows. 
MALFOY  MANOR  457  Bring them in, she said. 
Harry and the others were shov
ed and kicked up broad stone 
steps into a hallway li
ned with portraits. 
Follow me, said Narcissa, leading the way across the hall. My 
son, Draco, is home for his Easter holidays. If that is Harry Potter, 
he will know. The drawing room dazzled after the darkness outside; even with 
his eyes almost closed Harry coul
d make out the wide proportions 
of the room. A crystal chandelier hung from the ceiling, more por-
traits against the dark purple walls. Two figures rose from chairs in 

front of an ornate marble fireplace as the prisoners were forced into 
the room by the Snatchers. What is this? 
The dreadfully familiar, drawling 
voice of Lucius Malfoy fell on 
Harrys ears. He was panicking now: He could see no way out, and 

it was easier, as his fear mounted, 
to block out Voldemorts thoughts, 
though his scar was still burning. 
They say theyve got Potter, said 
Narcissas cold voice. Draco, 
come here. 
Harry did not dare look directly at
 Draco, but saw him obliquely: 
a figure slightly taller than he was,
 rising from an armchair, his face 
a pale and pointed blur 
beneath white-blond hair. 
Greyback forced the prisoners to 
turn again so as to place Harry 
directly beneath the chandelier. 
Well, boy? rasped the werewolf. 
Harry was facing a mirror over the 
fireplace, a great gilded thing 
in an intricately scrolled frame. 
Through the slits of his eyes he 
saw his own reflection for the first time since leaving Grimmauld 

Place. CHAPTER  TWENTY-THREE  458  His face was huge, shiny, and pink, every feature distorted by 
Hermiones jinx. His 
black hair reached his shoulders and there 
was a dark shadow around his jaw.
 Had he not know
n that it was 
he who stood there, he would have wondered who was wearing 
his glasses. He resolved not to spea
k, for his voice was sure to give 
him away; yet he still avoided eye 
contact with Draco as the latter 
approached. 
Well, Draco? said Lu
cius Malfoy. He sounded avid. Is it? Is 
it Harry Potter? 
I cant  I cant be sure, said
 Draco. He was keeping his dis-
tance from Greyback, and seemed as
 scared of looking at Harry as 
Harry was of looking at him. 
But look at him carefully, look! Come closer! 
Harry had never heard Lucius Malfoy so excited. 
Draco, if we are the ones who ha
nd Potter over to the Dark Lord, 
everything will be forgiv  
Now, we wont be forgetting who actually caught him, I hope, 
Mr. Malfoy? said Gr
eyback menacingly. 
Of course not, of course not! 
said Lucius impatiently. He ap-
proached Harry himself, came so
 close that Harry could see the 
usually languid, pale face in sharp detail even through his swollen 
eyes. With his face a puffy mask, 
Harry felt as though he was peer-
ing out from between 
the bars of a cage. 
What did you do to him? Lucius asked Greyback. How did 
he get into this state? 
That wasnt us. 
Looks more like a Stinging Jinx to me, said Lucius. 
His gray eyes raked Harrys forehead. 

Theres something there, he wh
ispered, it could be the scar, 
MALFOY  MANOR  459  stretched tight. . . . Draco, come here, look properly! What do you 
think? Harry saw Dracos face up close no
w, right beside his fathers. 
They were extraordinarily alike, ex
cept that while his father looked 
beside himself with excitement, Dr
acos expression was full of re-
luctance, even fear. 
I dont know, he said, and he 
walked away toward the fireplace 
where his mother stood watching. 
We had better be certain, Lucius, Narcissa called to her hus-
band in her cold, clear voice. Com
pletely sure that it is Potter, 
before we summon the Dark Lord . 
. . They say this is his  she 
was looking closely at the blacktho
rn wand  but it does not re-
semble Ollivanders description. . . 
. If we are mistaken, if we call the 
Dark Lord here for nothing . . . 
Remember what he did to Rowle 
and Dolohov? 
What about the Mudblood, then
? growled Greyback. Harry 
was nearly thrown off his feet as 
the Snatchers forced the prisoners 
to swivel around again, so that the light fell on Hermione instead. 
Wait, said Narcissa sharply. 
Yes  yes, she was in Madam 
Malkins with Potter! I 
saw her picture in the 
Prophet! Look, Draco, isnt it the Granger girl? 
I . . . maybe . . . yeah. But then, thats the Weasley boy! shouted Lucius, strid-
ing around the bound prisoners to face Ron. Its them, Potters 
friends  Draco, look at him, isnt it Arthur Weasleys son, whats 
his name  ? 
Yeah, said Draco again, his ba
ck to the prisoners. It could 
be. The drawing room door opened behind Harry. A woman spoke, 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-THREE  460  and the sound of the voice wound Harrys fear to an even higher 
pitch. What is this? Whats
 happened, Cissy? 
Bellatrix Lestrange walked slowly around the prisoners, and 
stopped on Harrys right, staring 
at Hermione through her heavily 
lidded eyes. But surely, she said quietly, t
his is the Mudbl
ood girl? This is 
Granger? 
Yes, yes, its Granger! cried Luci
us. And beside her, we think, 
Potter! Potter and his friends, caught at last! 
Potter? shrieked Bellatrix, and she backed away, the better to 
take in Harry. Are you sure? We
ll then, the Dark Lord must be 
informed at once! 
She dragged back her left slee
ve: Harry saw the Dark Mark 
burned into the flesh of her arm,
 and knew that she was about to 
touch it, to summon her beloved master  
I was about to call him! said
 Lucius, and his hand actually 
closed upon Bellatrixs wrist, 
preventing her from touching the 
Mark. 
I shall summon him, Bella, Po
tter has been brought to my 
house, and it is therefore upon my authority  
Your authority! she sneered, attempting to wrench her hand 
from his grasp. You lost your au
thority when you lost your wand, 
Lucius! How dare you! Ta
ke your hands off me! This is nothing to do with 
you, you did not capture the 
boy  
Begging your pardon, 
Mr. Malfoy, interjected Greyback, 
but its us that caught Potter, and its us thatll be claiming the 
gold  
Gold! laughed Bellatrix, stil
l attempting to throw off her 
MALFOY  MANOR  461  brother-in-law, her free hand groping in her pocket for her wand. 
Take your gold, filthy scavenger, 
what do I want with gold? I seek 
only the honor of his  of  
She stopped struggling, her dark
 eyes fixed upon something 
Harry could not see. Jubilant at he
r capitulation, Lucius threw her 
hand from him and ripped up his own sleeve  
STOP! shrieked Bellatrix. Do no
t touch it, we shall all perish 
if the Dark Lord comes now! 
Lucius froze, his index finger 
hovering over his own Mark. Bel-
latrix strode out of Harry
s limited line of vision. 
What is that? he heard her say. 
Sword, grunted an out-of-sight Snatcher. 
Give it to me. 
Its not yorn, missus, its 
mine, I reckon I found it. 
There was a bang and a flash of 
red light: Harry knew that the 
Snatcher had been Stunned. There was a roar of anger from his fel-
lows: Scabior drew his wand. 
What dyou think youre
 playing at, woman? 
Stupefy
! she screamed. Stupefy
! They were no match for her, even though there were four of them 
against one of her: Sh
e was a witch, as Harry knew, with prodi-
gious skill and no conscience. They fell where they stood, all except 
Greyback, who had been forced into a kneeling position, his arms 

outstretched. Out of the corners of his eyes Harry saw Bellatrix 
bearing down upon the werewolf, 
the sword of Gryffindor gripped 
tightly in her hand, her face waxen. 
Where did you get this sword? she whispered to Greyback as 
she pulled his wand out 
of his unresisting grip. 
How dare you? he snarled, his 
mouth the only thing that could 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-THREE  462  move as he was forced to gaze up 
at her. He bared his pointed teeth. 
Release me, woman! 
Where did you find this sword? 
she repeated, brandishing it in 
his face. Snape sent it to my vault in Gringotts! 
It was in their tent, rasped Greyback. Release me, I say! 
She waved her wand, and the werewolf sprang to his feet, but ap-
peared too wary to approach her. 
He prowled behind an armchair, 
his filthy curved nail
s clutching its back. 
Draco, move this scum outside,
 said Bellatrix, indicating the 
unconscious men. If you havent go
t the guts to finish them, then 
leave them in the 
courtyard for me. 
Dont you dare speak to Draco li
ke  said Narcissa furiously, 
but Bellatrix screamed, Be quiet! The situation is graver
 than you can possibly imagine, 
Cissy! We have a very serious problem! 
She stood, panting slightly, look
ing down at the sword, examin-
ing its hilt. Then she turned to 
look at the silent prisoners. 
If it is indeed Potter, he must
 not be harmed, she muttered, 
more to herself than to the others
. The Dark Lord wishes to dis-
pose of Potter himself. . . . But if 
he finds out . . . I must . . . I must 
know. . . . She turned back to her sister again. 
The prisoners must be placed in
 the cellar, while I think what 
to do! 
This is my house, Bella, you 
dont give orders in my  Do it! You have no idea of the danger we are in! shrieked Bel-
latrix. She looked frightening, mad; a 
thin stream of fire issued from 
her wand and burned a 
hole in the carpet. 
Narcissa hesitated for a moment, then addressed the werewolf. MALFOY  MANOR  463  Take these prisoners down to the cellar, Greyback. 
Wait, said Bellatrix sharply. All except . . . except for the 
Mudblood. Greyback gave a gr
unt of pleasure. 
No! shouted Ron. You can have me, keep me! 
Bellatrix hit him across the face
; the blow echoed around the 
room. If she dies under questioning, I
ll take you next, she said. Blood 
traitor is next to Mudblood in 
my book. Take them downstairs, 
Greyback, and make sure they are secure, but do nothing more to 

them  yet. She threw Greybacks wand back to
 him, then took a short silver 
knife from under her robes. She cut Hermione free from the other 
prisoners, then dragged her by the 
hair into the middle of the room, 
while Greyback forced the rest of 
them to shuffle across to another 
door, into a dark passageway, his wa
nd held out in front of him, 
projecting an invisible and irresistible force. 
Reckon shell let me have a bit 
of the girl when shes finished 
with her? Greyback crooned as he
 forced them along the corridor. 
Id say Ill get a bite or two, wouldnt you, ginger? 
Harry could feel Ron shaking. They were forced down a steep 
flight of stairs, still tied back-to-
back and in danger of slipping and 
breaking their necks at any mo
ment. At the bottom was a heavy 
door. Greyback unlocked it with 
a tap of his wand, then forced 
them into a dank and musty room and left them in total darkness. 
The echoing bang of 
the slammed cellar door had not died away 
before there was a terrible, drawn-out scream from directly above 
them. HERMIONE! Ron bellowed, and he started to writhe and 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-THREE  464  struggle against the ropes tying th
em together, so that Harry stag-
gered. HERMIONE! Be quiet! Harry said. Shut up, 
Ron, we need to work out a 
way  HERMIONE! HERMIONE! We need a plan, stop yelling 
 we need to get these ropes 
off  Harry? came a whisper through the darkness. Ron? Is that 
you? Ron stopped shouting. There was 
a sound of movement close by 
them, then Harry saw a shadow moving closer. 
Harry? Ron? Luna
? Yes, its me! Oh no, I didnt
 want you to be caught! 
Luna, can you help us get these ropes off? said Harry. 

Oh yes, I expect so. . . . Theres an
 old nail we use if we need to 
break anything. . . . Just a moment . . . 
Hermione screamed again from 
overhead, and they could hear 
Bellatrix screaming too, but her 
words were inaudible, for Ron 
shouted again, HERMIONE! HERMIONE! 
Mr. Ollivander? Harry could he
ar Luna saying. Mr. Olli-
vander, have you got the nail? If you just move over a little bit. . . 
I think it was beside 
the water jug. . . . She was back within seconds. 
Youll need to stay still, she said. 
Harry could feel her diggi
ng at the ropes to
ugh fibers to work 
the knots free. From upstairs 
they heard Bellatrixs voice. Im going to ask you again! 
Where did you get this sword? 
Where? MALFOY  MANOR  465  We found it  we found it  
PLEASE! Hermione screamed 
again; Ron struggled harder than 
ever, and the rusty nail slipped 
onto Harrys wrist. 
Ron, please stay still! Luna whispered. I cant see what Im 
doing  My pocket! said Ron. In my 
pocket, theres a Deluminator, 
and its full of light! 
A few seconds later, there was a cl
ick, and the luminescent spheres 
the Deluminator had sucked from th
e lamps in the tent flew into 
the cellar: Unable to rejoin their 
sources, they simply hung there, 
like tiny suns, flooding the unde
rground room with light. Harry 
saw Luna, all eyes in her white fa
ce, and the motionless figure of 
Ollivander the wandmaker, curled 
up on the floor in the corner. 
Craning around, he caught sight of
 their fellow prisoners: Dean and 
Griphook the goblin, who seemed ba
rely conscious, kept standing 
by the ropes that boun
d him to the humans. 
Oh, thats much easier, thanks
, Ron, said Luna, and she began 
hacking at their bindings
 again. Hello, Dean! From above came Bellatrixs voice. 
You are lying, filthy Mudblood,
 and I know it! You have been 
inside my vault at Gringotts! Tell the truth, 
tell the truth
! Another terrible scream  
HERMIONE! 
What else did you take? What el
se have you got? Tell me the 
truth or, I swear, I shall run 
you through with this knife! 
There! 
Harry felt the ropes fall away and 
turned, rubbing his wrists, to 
see Ron running around the cellar, looking up at the low ceiling, 

searching for a trapdoor. Dean, his face bruised and bloody, said 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-THREE  466  Thanks to Luna and stood there,
 shivering, but Griphook sank 
onto the cellar floor, looking gro
ggy and disoriented, many welts 
across his swarthy face. 
Ron was now trying to Di
sapparate without a wand. 
Theres no way out, Ron, said Luna, watching his fruitless ef-
forts. The cellar is completely esca
pe-proof. I tried, at first. Mr. Ol-
livander has been here for a lo
ng time, hes tried everything. 
Hermione was screaming again: 
The sound went through Harry 
like physical pain. Barely conscious of the fierce prickling of his 
scar, he too started to run around 
the cellar, feeling the walls for he 
hardly knew what, knowing in his heart th
at it was useless. 
What else did you take, what else? ANSWER ME! 
CRUCIO
! Hermiones screams echoed off the walls upstairs, Ron was half 
sobbing as he pounded the walls wi
th his fists, and Harry in utter 
desperation seized Hagrids pouch 
from around his neck and groped 
inside it: He pulled out Dumbledore
s Snitch and shook it, hoping 
for he did not know what  no
thing happened  he waved the 
broken halves of the phoenix wand
, but they were lifeless  the 
mirror fragment fell sparkling to 
the floor, and he saw a gleam of 
brightest blue  
Dumbledores eye was gazing 
at him out of the mirror. 
Help us! he yelled at it in mad 
desperation. Were in the cellar 
of Malfoy Manor, help us! 
The eye blinked and was gone. 
Harry was not even sure that it had really been there. He tilted the 
shard of mirror this way and that, and saw nothing reflected there 
but the walls and ceiling of their prison, and upstairs Hermione was 
screaming worse than ever, and 
next to him Ron was bellowing, 
HERMIONE! HERMIONE! MALFOY  MANOR  467  How did you get into my vault?
 they heard Bellatrix scream. 
Did that dirty li
ttle goblin in the cellar help you? We only met him tonight! He
rmione sobbed. Weve never 
been inside your vault. . . . It isnt 
the real sword! Its a copy, just a 
copy! 
A copy? screeched Bellatrix. Oh, a likely story! 
But we can find out easily! ca
me Luciuss voice. Draco, fetch 
the goblin, he can tell us whet
her the sword is real or not! 
Harry dashed across the cellar to
 where Griphook was huddled 
on the floor. 
Griphook, he whispered into the 
goblins pointed ear, you must 
tell them that swords a fake, they
 mustnt know its the real one, 
Griphook, please  
He could hear someone scuttling 
down the cellar steps; next mo-
ment, Dracos shaking voice spoke from behind the door. Stand back. Line up against th
e back wall. Dont try anything, 
or Ill kill you! They did as they were bidden; as the lock turned, Ron clicked the 
Deluminator and the lights whisked back into his pocket, restoring 
the cellars darkness. The door fl
ew open; Malfoy marched inside, 
wand held out in front of him, pale and determined. He seized the 
little goblin by the arm and back
ed out again, dragging Griphook 
with him. The door slammed shut 
and at the same moment a loud 
crack echoed inside the cellar. 
Ron clicked the Deluminator. Three 
balls of light flew back into 
the air from his pocket, revealin
g Dobby the house-elf, who had 
just Apparated into their midst. 
DOB  ! 

Harry hit Ron on the arm to stop
 him shouting, and Ron looked 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-THREE  468  terrified at his mistake. Footsteps crossed the ceiling overhead: Draco 
marching Griphook to Bellatrix. 
Dobbys enormous, tennis-ball-sha
ped eyes were wide; he was 
trembling from his feet to the tips of his ears. He was back in the 
home of his old masters, and it 
was clear that he was petrified. 
Harry Potter, he squeaked in 
the tiniest quiver of a voice, 
Dobby has come to rescue you. 
But how did you  ? 
An awful scream drowned Harrys words: Hermione was being 
tortured again. He cut to the essentials. 
You can Disapparate out of this
 cellar? he asked Dobby, who 
nodded, his ears flapping. And you can take humans with you? 
Dobby nodded again. Right. Dobby, I want you to grab Luna, Dean, and Mr. Olli-
vander, and take them  take them to  
Bill and Fleurs, said Ron. Shell Cottage on the outskirts of 
Tinworth! The elf nodded for a third time. 
And then come back, said Ha
rry. Can you do that, Dobby? 
Of course, Harry Potter, whispere
d the little elf. He hurried 
over to Mr. Ollivander, who appear
ed to be barely conscious. He 
took one of the wandmakers hand
s in his own, then held out the 
other to Luna and Dean, neither of whom moved. 
Harry, we want to help you! Luna whispered. 
We cant leave you 
here, said Dean. 
Go, both of you! Well see you at Bill and Fleurs. 
As Harry spoke, his scar burned worse than ever, and for a few  
 MALFOY  MANOR  469  seconds he looked down, not upon the wandmaker, but on another 
man who was just as old, just as
 thin, but laughing scornfully. 
Kill me, then, Voldemort, I welcome death! But my death will 
not bring you what you seek.
 . . . 
There is so much you do not under-
stand. . . . 
He felt Voldemorts fury, but as Hermione screamed again he shut 
it out, returning to the cellar an
d the horror of his own present. 
Go! Harry beseeched Luna and 
Dean. Go! Well follow, just 
go! They caught hold of the elfs outstretched fingers. There was 
another loud 
crack, and Dobby, Luna, Dean, and Ollivander 
vanished. What was that? shouted Lucius 
Malfoy from over their heads. 
Did you hear that? What was that noise in the cellar? 
Harry and Ron stared at each other. 

Draco  no, call Wormtail
! Make him go and check! 
Footsteps crossed the room over
head, then there was silence. 
Harry knew that the people in the drawing room were listening for 
more noises from the cellar. 
Were going to have to try and ta
ckle him, he whispered to Ron. 
They had no choice: The moment anyone entered the room and saw 
the absence of three prisoners, they 
were lost. Leave the lights on, 
Harry added, and as they heard 
someone descending the steps out-
side the door, they backed against 
the wall on eith
er side of it. Stand back, came Wormtails voice. Stand away from the door. 
I am coming in. 
The door flew open. For a split second Wormtail gazed into the 
apparently empty cellar, ablaze with
 light from the 
three miniature   CHAPTER  TWENTY-THREE  470  suns floating in midair. Then Ha
rry and Ron launched themselves 
upon him. Ron seized Wormtails 
wand arm and forced it upward; 
Harry slapped a hand to his mouth, 
muffling his voice. Silently they 
struggled: Wormtails wand emitte
d sparks; his silver hand closed 
around Harrys throat. 
What is it, Wormtail? called 
Lucius Malfoy from above. 
Nothing! Ron called back, in a 
passable imitation of Wormtails 
wheezy voice. All fine! 
Harry could barely breathe. 
Youre going to kill me? Harry ch
oked, attempting to prise off the 
metal fingers. After I saved yo
ur life? You owe me, Wormtail! 
The silver fingers slackened. Ha
rry had not expected it: He 
wrenched himself free, astonished, keeping his hand over Worm-
tails mouth. He saw the ratlike 
mans small watery eyes widen with 
fear and surprise: He seemed just 
as shocked as Harry at what his 
hand had done, at the tiny, mercif
ul impulse it had betrayed, and 
he continued to struggle more powerfully, as though to undo that 
moment of weakness. 
And well have that, whispere
d Ron, tugging Wormtails wand 
from his other hand. 
Wandless, helpless, Pettigrews pupils dilated in terror. His eyes 
had slid from Harrys face to some
thing else. His own silver fingers 
were moving inexorably 
toward his own throat. 
No  
Without pausing to think, Harry tried to drag back the hand, but 
there was no stopping it. The silver tool that Voldemort had given 
his most cowardly servant had tu
rned upon its disarmed and use-
less owner; Pettigrew was reaping his
 reward for his hesitation, his 
moment of pity; he was being 
strangled before their eyes. 
MALFOY  MANOR  471  No! 
Ron had released Wormtail too, 
and together he and Harry tried 
to pull the crushing metal fingers 
from around Wormtails throat, 
but it was no use. Pettigrew was turning blue. 
Relashio! said Ron, pointing the wa
nd at the silver hand, but 
nothing happened; Pettigrew dropped 
to his knees, and at the same 
moment, Hermione gave a dreadful
 scream from overhead. Worm-
tails eyes rolled upward in his pu
rple face; he gave
 a last twitch, 
and was still. 
Harry and Ron looked at each othe
r, then leaving Wormtails body 
on the floor behind them, ran up th
e stairs and back into the shad-
owy passageway leading to the drawing room. Cautiously they crept 
along it until they reached the 
drawing room door, which was ajar. 
Now they had a clear view of Be
llatrix looking down at Griphook, 
who was holding Gryffindors sword 
in his long-fingered hands. Her-
mione was lying at Bellatrixs feet. She was barely stirring. 
Well? Bellatrix said to Griphook. Is it the true sword? Harry waited, holding his breath, 
fighting against the prickling 
of his scar. 
No, said Griphook. It is a fake. 

Are you sure? panted Be
llatrix. Quite sure? 
Yes, said the goblin. 
Relief broke across her face, 
all tension drained from it. 
Good, she said, and with a casual flick of 
her wand she slashed 
another deep cut into the goblins 
face, and he dropped with a yell 
at her feet. She kicked him aside. A
nd now, she said in a voice that 
burst with triumph, we 
call the Dark Lord! 
And she pushed back her sleeve 
and touched her forefinger to 
the Dark Mark. 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-THREE  472  At once, Harrys scar felt as though it had split open again. His 
true surroundings vanished: He wa
s Voldemort, and the skeletal 
wizard before him was laughing to
othlessly at him; he was enraged 
at the summons he felt  he had 
warned them, he had told them 
to summon him for nothing less th
an Potter. If they were mis-
taken . . . Kill me, then! demanded the old man.
 You will not win, you 
cannot win! That wand will never, ever be yours
  
And Voldemorts fury broke: A 
burst of green light filled the 
prison room and the frail old body 
was lifted from its hard bed and 
then fell back, lifeless, and Voldem
ort returned to the window, his 
wrath barely controllable. . . . Th
ey would suffer his retribution if 
they had no good reason for calling him back. . . . And I think, said Bellatrixs vo
ice, we can dispose of the Mud-
blood. Greyback, take her if you want her. NOOOOOOOOOOOO! Ron had burst into the drawing 
room; Bellatrix looked around, 
shocked; she turned her wand to face Ron instead  
Expelliarmus! he roared, pointing Wormtails wand at Bella-
trix, and hers flew into the air 
and was caught by Harry, who had 
sprinted after Ron. Lucius, Narcissa, Draco, and Greyback wheeled 
about; Harry yelled, 
Stupefy! and Lucius Malfoy collapsed onto 
the hearth. Jets of light flew from Dracos, Narcissas, and Grey-

backs wands; Harry threw himsel
f to the floor, rolling behind a 
sofa to avoid them. 
STOP OR SHE DIES! 
Panting, Harry peered around the 
edge of the sofa. Bellatrix was 
supporting Hermione, who seemed 
to be unconscious, and was 
holding her short silver knife to Hermiones throat. 
MALFOY  MANOR  473  Drop your wands, she whispered. Drop them, or well see ex-
actly how filthy her blood is! 
Ron stood rigid, clutching Wormta
ils wand. Harry straightened 
up, still holding Bellatrixs. 
I said, drop them! she screeched, pressing the blade into Hermi-
ones throat: Harry saw beads of blood appear there. All right! he shouted, and he dr
opped Bellatrixs wand onto the 
floor at his feet. Ron did the same 
with Wormtails. Both raised their 
hands to shoulder height. 
Good! she leered. Draco, pick them up! The Dark Lord is 
coming, Harry Potter! Your
 death approaches! 
Harry knew it; his scar was bursting
 with the pain of it, and he 
could feel Voldemort flying throug
h the sky from far away, over a 
dark and stormy sea, and soon he would be close enough to Apparate 
to them, and Harry co
uld see no way out. Now, said Bellatrix softly, as Draco hurried back to her with the 
wands, Cissy, I think we
 ought to tie these litt
le heroes up again, 
while Greyback takes care of Miss Mudblood. I am sure the Dark 
Lord will not begrudge you the girl, Greyback, after what you have 
done tonight. 
At the last word there was a pecu
liar grinding noise from above. 
All of them looked upward in ti
me to see the crystal chandelier 
tremble; then, with a creak and an
 ominous jingling, it began to 
fall. Bellatrix was directly beneat
h it; dropping Hermione, she threw 
herself aside with a scream. The ch
andelier crashed 
to the floor in 
an explosion of crystal and chains
, falling on top of Hermione and 
the goblin, who still clutched the 
sword of Gryffindor. Glittering 
shards of crystal flew in all directions: Draco doubled over, his hands 

covering his bloody face. CHAPTER  TWENTY-THREE  474  As Ron ran to pull Hermione out of the wreckage, Harry took his 
chance: He leapt over an armchair and wrested the three wands from 

Dracos grip, pointed all of them at Greyback, and yelled, 
Stupefy! The werewolf was lifted off his feet by the triple spell, flew up to the 
ceiling, and then smashed to the ground. 
As Narcissa dragged Draco out of the way of further harm, Bel-
latrix sprang to her feet, her hair flying as she brandished the silver 

knife; but Narcissa had directed her wand at the doorway. Dobby! she screamed, and even Bellatrix froze. You! 
You dropped the chandelier  ? The tiny elf trotted into the room
, his shaking finger pointing at 
his old mistress. 
You must not hurt Har
ry Potter, he squeaked. 
Kill him, Cissy! shri
eked Bellatrix, but th
ere was another loud 
crack, and Narcissas wand too flew 
into the air and landed on the 
other side of the room. You dirty little monk
ey! bawled Bellatrix. How dare you take 
a witchs wand, how dare you defy your masters? 
Dobby has no master! squealed the elf. Dobby is a free elf, and 
Dobby has come to save Harry
 Potter and his friends! 
Harrys scar was blinding him wi
th pain. Dimly he knew that 
they had moments, seconds befo
re Voldemort was with them. Ron, catch  and GO! he yelle
d, throwing one of the wands 
to him; then he bent down to tug Griphook out from under the 
chandelier. Hoisting the groaning
 goblin, who still clung to the 
sword, over one shoulder, Harry seized Dobbys hand and spun on 
the spot to Disapparate. As he turned into darkness he caught one last view of the drawing 
room: of the pale, frozen figures of 
Narcissa and Draco, of the streak 
MALFOY  MANOR  475  of red that was Rons hair, and a blur
 of flying silver, as Bellatrixs 
knife flew across the room at th
e place where he was vanishing  
Bill and Fleurs
 . . . Shell Cottage
 . . . Bill and Fleurs
 . . . He had disappeared into the un
known; all he could do was re-
peat the name of the destination 
and hope that it would suffice 
to take him there. The pain in 
his forehead pierced him, and the 
weight of the goblin bore down upon him; he could feel the blade of 

Gryffindors sword bumping agains
t his back; Dobbys hand jerked 
in his; he wondered whether the el
f was trying to take charge, to 
pull them in the right direction, an
d tried, by squeezing the fingers, 
to indicate that that was fine with him. . . . And then they hit solid earth and smelled salty air. Harry fell 
to his knees, relinquished Dobbys hand, and attempted to lower 
Griphook gently to the ground. 
Are you all right? he said as 
the goblin stirred, but Griphook 
merely whimpered. 
Harry squinted around through the darkness. There seemed to 
be a cottage a short way away under the wide starry sky, and he 
thought he saw movement outside it. 
Dobby, is this Shell Cottage? 
he whispered, clutching the two 
wands he had brought from the Malfoys, ready to fight if he needed 
to. Have we come to the right place? Dobby? 
He looked around. The little elf stood feet from him. DOBBY! 
The elf swayed slightly, stars refl
ected in his wide, shining eyes. 
Together, he and Harry l
ooked down at the silver hilt of the knife 
protruding from the elfs heaving chest. 
Dobby  no  HELP! Harry 
bellowed toward the cottage, 
toward the people mo
ving there. HELP! CHAPTER  TWENTY-THREE  476  He did not know or care whethe
r they were wizards or Muggles, 
friends or foes; all he cared about 
was that a dark stain was spreading 
across Dobbys front, and that he had stretched out his thin arms to 
Harry with a look of supplication.
 Harry caught him and laid him 
sideways on the cool grass. 
Dobby, no, dont di
e, dont die  
The elfs eyes found him, and his 
lips trembled with the effort 
to form words. 
Harry . . . Potter . . . And then with a little shudder the 
elf became quite still, and his 
eyes were nothing more than great glassy orbs, sprinkled with light 
from the stars they could not see. 
C H A P T E R  T W E N T Y - F O U R   477  THE WANDMAKER 
   t was like sinking into an old nightmare; for an instant Harry 
knelt again beside Dumbledores b
ody at the foot of the tallest 
tower at Hogwarts, but in reality he was staring at a tiny body curled 

upon the grass, pierced 
by Bellatrixs silver 
knife. Harrys voice was 
still saying, Dobby . . . 
Dobby . . . even though he knew that the 
elf had gone where he co
uld not call him back. 
After a minute or so he realized that they had, after all, come to 
the right place, for here were Bill
 and Fleur, Dean and Luna, gath-
ering around him as he
 knelt over the elf. 
Hermione? he said suddenly. Where is she? 
Rons taken her inside, said
 Bill. Shell be all right. 
Harry looked back down at Dobby. He stretched out a hand and 
pulled the sharp blade from the elfs body, then dragged off his own 

jacket and covered Dobby 
in it like a blanket. The sea was rushing against ro
ck somewhere nearby; Harry lis-
tened to it while the others talked
, discussing matters in which he 
I CHAPTER  TWENTY-FOUR  478  could take no interest, making de
cisions. Dean carried the injured 
Griphook into the house, Fleur hurrying with them; now Bill was 

making suggestions about buryin
g the elf. Harry 
agreed without 
really knowing what he was saying
. As he did so, 
he gazed down at 
the tiny body, and his scar prickled and burned, and in one part of 
his mind, viewed as if from the wron
g end of a long telescope, he saw 
Voldemort punishing those they had 
left behind at Malfoy Manor. 
His rage was dreadful and yet Ha
rrys grief for Dobby seemed to 
diminish it, so that it became 
a distant storm that reached Harry 
from across a vast, silent ocean. 
I want to do it properly, we
re the first words of which Harry 
was fully conscious of speaking. 
Not by magic. Have you got a 
spade? 
And shortly afterward he had set to work, alone, digging the 
grave in the place that Bill had sh
own him at the end of the garden, 
between bushes. He dug with a kind of fury, relishing the manual 
work, glorying in the non-magic of
 it, for every drop of his sweat 
and every blister felt like a gift to the elf who had saved their lives. 
His scar burned, but he was master of the pain; he felt it, yet was 
apart from it. He had learned cont
rol at last, learned to shut his 
mind to Voldemort, the very 
thing Dumbledore had wanted him 
to learn from Snape. Just as Vo
ldemort had not been able to pos-
sess Harry while Harry was consumed
 with grief for Sirius, so his 
thoughts could not penetrate Harry
 now, while he mourned Dobby. 
Grief, it seemed, drove Voldemort 
out . . . though Dumbledore, of 
course, would have said 
that it was love. . . . 
On Harry dug, deeper and deeper
 into the hard, cold earth, 
subsuming his grief in sweat, deny
ing the pain in his scar. In the 
darkness, with nothing but the so
und of his own breath and the 
THE  WANDMAKER  479  rushing sea to keep hi
m company, the things that had happened at 
the Malfoys returned to him, the 
things he had he
ard came back 
to him, and understanding blossomed in the darkness. . . . 
The steady rhythm of his arms beat time with his thoughts. Hal-
lows . . . Horcruxes . . . Hallows . . . Horcruxes . . . Yet he no longer burned with that weird, obsessive longing. Loss and fear had snuffed 
it out: He felt as though he
 had been slapped awake again. Deeper and deeper Harry sank into the grave, and he knew where 
Voldemort had been tonight, and 
whom he had killed in the top-
most cell of Nurmen
gard, and why. . . . And he thought of Wormtail, de
ad because of one small uncon-
scious impulse of mercy. . . . Dumbledore had foreseen that. . . . 
How much more had he known? 
Harry lost track of time. He kn
ew only that the darkness had 
lightened a few degree
s when he was rejoined by Ron and Dean. 
Hows Hermione? Better, said Ron. Fleurs looking after her. 
Harry had his retort ready for when they asked him why he had 
not simply created a perfect grave with his wand, but he did not 
need it. They jumped down into the 
hole he had made with spades 
of their own, and together they 
worked in silenc
e until the hole 
seemed deep enough. 
Harry wrapped the elf more snugly
 in his jacket. Ron sat on the 
edge of the grave and stripped off his shoes and socks, which he 
placed upon the elfs bare feet. 
Dean produced a woolen hat, which 
Harry placed carefully upon Dobby
s head, muffli
ng his batlike 
ears. We should close his eyes. 

Harry had not heard the others 
coming through the darkness. 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-FOUR  480  Bill was wearing a traveling cloak, 
Fleur a large white apron, from 
the pocket of which pr
otruded a bottle of wh
at Harry recognized 
to be Skele-Gro. Hermione was 
wrapped in a borrowed dressing 
gown, pale and unsteady on her feet; Ron put an arm around her 
when she reached him. Luna, who was huddled in one of Fleurs 
coats, crouched down and placed her fingers tenderly upon each of 
the elfs eyelids, sliding th
em over his glassy stare. 
There, she said softly. N
ow he could be sleeping. 
Harry placed the elf into the grave, arranged his tiny limbs so that 
he might have been resting, then climbed out and gazed for the last 

time upon the little body. He forced himself not to break down as he 
remembered Dumbledores funeral, and the rows and rows of golden 
chairs, and the Minister of Magic in the fron
t row, the recitation 
of Dumbledores achievements, the 
stateliness of the white marble 
tomb. He felt that Dobby deserved 
just as grand a funeral, and yet 
here the elf lay between bush
es in a roughly dug hole. I think we ought to say somet
hing, piped up Luna. Ill go 
first, shall I? 
And as everybody looked at her, 
she addressed the dead elf at the 
bottom of the grave. 
Thank you so much, Dobby, for resc
uing me from that cellar. Its so unfair that you had to die, when
 you were so good and brave. Ill 
always remember what you did fo
r us. I hope youre happy now. 
She turned and looked expectantly at Ron, who cleared his throat and said in a thick voice, 
Yeah . . . thanks, Dobby. Thanks, muttered Dean. 
Harry swallowed. Good-bye, Dobby, he said. It was all he could manage, but 
Luna had said it all for him. Bill 
raised his wand, and the pile of 
THE  WANDMAKER  481  earth beside the grave rose up into
 the air and fell neatly upon it, a 
small, reddish mound. Dyou mind if I stay here a moment? he asked the others. 
They murmured words he did not ca
tch; he felt gentle pats upon 
his back, and then they all traipsed
 back toward the cottage, leaving 
Harry alone beside the elf. 
He looked around: There were a 
number of large white stones, 
smoothed by the sea, marking the edge
 of the flower beds. He picked 
up one of the largest and laid it
, pillowlike, over the place where 
Dobbys head now rested. He then felt in his pocket for a wand. 
There were two in there. He had forgotten, lost track; he could 
not now remember whose wands these were; he seemed to remem-
ber wrenching them out of someones hand. He selected the shorter 
of the two, which felt friendlier 
in his hand, and pointed it at the 
rock. Slowly, under his murmured inst
ruction, deep cuts appeared 
upon the rocks surface. He knew
 that Hermione could have done 
it more neatly, and probably more quickly, but he wanted to mark 
the spot as he had wanted to 
dig the grave. Wh
en Harry stood up 
again, the stone read:  HERE LIES DOBBY, A FREE ELF.  He looked down at his handiwork for a few more seconds, then 
walked away, his scar still pricklin
g a little, and his mind full of 
those things that had come to him in the grave, ideas that had taken 
shape in the darkness, ideas both fascinating and terrible. 
They were all sitting in the living room when he entered the little 
hall, their attention focused upon 
Bill, who was talking. The room 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-FOUR  482  was light-colored, pretty, with a small fire of driftwood burning 
brightly in the fireplace. Harry di
d not want to drop mud upon the 
carpet, so he stood in the doorway, listening. . . . lucky that Ginnys on holi
day. If shed been at Hogwarts, 
they could have taken her before
 we reached her. Now we know 
shes safe too. 
He looked around and saw Harry standing there. 

Ive been getting them all out of the Burrow, he explained. 
Moved them to Muriels. The De
ath Eaters know Rons with you 
now, theyre bound to target th
e family  dont apologize, he 
added at the sight of Harrys expression. It was always a matter 
of time, Dads been saying so 
for months. Were the biggest blood-traitor family there is. How are they protected? asked Harry. Fidelius Charm. Dads Secret-Keep
er. And weve done it on this 
cottage too; Im Secret-Keeper here
. None of us can go to work, but 
thats hardly the most important 
thing now. Once Ollivander and 
Griphook are well enough, well mo
ve them to Muriels too. There 
isnt much room here, but shes got plenty. Griphooks legs are on 
the mend, Fleurs given him Skele-
Gro; we could probably move 
them in an hour or  
No, Harry said, and Bill looked 
startled. I need both of them 
here. I need to talk to them. Its important. 
He heard the authority in his own voice, the conviction, the sense 
of purpose that had come to him 
as he dug Dobbys grave. All of 
their faces were turned towa
rd him, looking puzzled. 
Im going to wash, Harry told 
Bill, looking down at his hands, 
still covered in mud and Dobbys 
blood. Then Ill need to see them, 
straightaway. THE  WANDMAKER  483  He walked into the little kitchen,
 to the basin beneath a window 
overlooking the sea. Dawn was breaki
ng over the horizon, shell pink 
and faintly gold, as he washed, again following the train of thought 
that had come to him in
 the dark garden. . . . 
Dobby would never be able to tell them who had sent him to the 
cellar, but Harry knew what he ha
d seen. A piercing blue eye had 
looked out of the mirror fragment, and then help had come. 
Help will always be given at Hogwar
ts to those who ask for it.
 Harry dried his hands, impervious to the beauty of the scene 
outside the window and to the murmuring of the others in the sit-
ting room. He looked out over th
e ocean and felt closer, this dawn, 
than ever before, closer 
to the heart of it all. 
And still his scar prickled, and 
he knew that Voldemort was get-
ting there too. Harry understood 
and yet did not understand. His instinct was telling him one thing, his brain quite another. The 
Dumbledore in Harrys head smiled, surveying Harry over the tips 

of his fingers, pressed to
gether as if in prayer. 
You gave Ron the Deluminator. You understood him.
 . . . 
You gave him a way back. . . . And you understood Wormtail too.
 . . .
 You knew there was a bit of 
regret there, somewhere.
 . . . And if you knew them
 . . . 
What did you know about me, Dumble-
dore?
 Am I meant to know, but not to seek? Did you know how hard Id 
find that? Is that why you made it this difficult? So Id have time to 

work that out?
 Harry stood quite still, eyes glaz
ed, watching the place where a 
bright gold rim of dazzling sun was 
rising over the horizon. Then he looked down at his clean hands an
d was momentarily surprised to CHAPTER  TWENTY-FOUR  484  see the cloth he was holding in th
em. He set it down and returned 
to the hall, and as he 
did so, he felt his scar pulse angrily, and there 
flashed across his mind, swift as th
e reflection of a dragonfly over 
water, the outline of a buildi
ng he knew extremely well. 
Bill and Fleur were standing at the foot of the stairs. 
I need to speak to Griphook and Ollivander, Harry said. 
No, said Fleur. You will ave 
to wait, Arry. Zey are both ill, 
tired  
Im sorry, he said without heat, 
but it cant wait. I need to talk 
to them now. Privately  an
d separately. Its urgent. 
Harry, what the hells going on? 
asked Bill. You turn up here 
with a dead house-elf and a half
-conscious goblin, Hermione looks 
as though shes been tortured, an
d Rons just refused to tell me 
anything  
We cant tell you what were doing,
 said Harry flatly. Youre in 
the Order, Bill, you know Dumbledor
e left us a mission. Were not 
supposed to talk about it to anyone else. 
Fleur made an impatient noise, but 
Bill did not look at her; he was 
staring at Harry. His deeply scarre
d face was hard to read. Finally 
Bill said, All right. Who do you want to talk to first? 
Harry hesitated. He knew what hung on his decision. There was 
hardly any time left; now was the 
moment to decide: Horcruxes or 
Hallows? 
Griphook, Harry said. Ill 
speak to Grip
hook first. 
His heart was racing as if he 
had been sprinting and had just 
cleared an enormous obstacle. 
Up here, then, said Bill, leading the way. 
Harry had walked up several step
s before stopping and looking 
back. THE  WANDMAKER  485  I need you two as well! he called to Ron and Hermione, who 
had been skulking, half concealed,
 in the doorway of the sitting 
room. They both moved into the li
ght, looking oddly relieved. How are you? Harry asked Herm
ione. You were amazing  
coming up with that story when 
she was hurting you like that  
Hermione gave a weak smile as Ron gave her a one-armed 
squeeze. What are we doing now,
 Harry? he asked. 
Youll see. Come on. 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione followed Bill up the steep stairs onto 
a small landing. Three doors led off it. In here, said Bill, opening the 
door into his and Fleurs room. 
It too had a view of the sea, now 
flecked with gold in the sunrise. 
Harry moved to the window, turned
 his back on the spectacular 
view, and waited, his arms folded, 
his scar prickling. Hermione took 
the chair beside the 
dressing table; Ron sat on the arm. Bill reappeared, carrying the little goblin, whom he set down 
carefully upon the bed. Griphook grunted thanks, and Bill left, 
closing the door upon them all. Im sorry to take you out of be
d, said Harry. How are your 
legs? 
Painful, replied the goblin. But mending. 

He was still clutching the sword of
 Gryffindor, and wore a strange 
look: half truculent, half intrigue
d. Harry noted the goblins sallow 
skin, his long thin fingers, his 
black eyes. Fleur had removed his 
shoes: His long feet were dirty. He was larger than a house-elf, but 
not by much. His domed head was much bigger than a humans. 
You probably dont reme
mber  Harry began. 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-FOUR  486   that I was the gobl
in who showed you to your vault, the first 
time you ever visited Gringotts?
 said Griphook. I remember, 
Harry Potter. Even amongst go
blins, you are very famous. 
Harry and the goblin looked at each
 other, sizing each other up. 
Harrys scar was still prickling. He
 wanted to get through this in-
terview with Griphook quickly, and 
at the same time was afraid of 
making a false move. While he trie
d to decide on the best way to 
approach his request, the 
goblin broke the silence. 
You buried the elf, he said, so
unding unexpectedly rancorous. 
I watched you from the window of the bedroom next door. Yes, said Harry. 
Griphook looked at him out of the corners of his slanting black 
eyes. 
You are an unusual 
wizard, Harry Potter. 
In what way? asked Harry, rubbing his scar absently. 

You dug the grave. 
So? 
Griphook did not answer. Harry 
rather thought he was being 
sneered at for acting like a Muggle, but it did not much matter to 
him whether Griphook approved of Dobbys grave or not. He gath-

ered himself for the attack. 
Griphook, I need to ask  
You also resc
ued a goblin. 
What? 
You brought me here. Saved me. 
Well, I take it youre not sorry?
 said Harry a little impatiently. 
No, Harry Potter, said Griph
ook, and with one finger he 
twisted the thin black beard upon his chin, but you are a very 

odd wizard. THE  WANDMAKER  487  Right, said Harry. Well, I need some help, Griphook, and you 
can give it to me. 
The goblin made no sign of encouragement, but continued to 
frown at Harry as thou
gh he had never seen anything like him. I need to break into a Gringotts vault. 
Harry had not meant to say it so 
baldly; the words were forced 
from him as pain shot through his 
lightning scar and he saw, again, 
the outline of Hogwarts. He closed
 his mind firmly
. He needed to 
deal with Griphook first. Ron an
d Hermione were staring at Harry 
as though he 
had gone mad. Harry  said Hermione, but she was cut off by Griphook. 
Break into a Gringotts vault? 
repeated the goblin, wincing a 
little as he shifted his 
position upon the bed. It is impossible. 
No, it isnt, Ron contradicted him. Its been done. 
Yeah, said Harry. The same day I first met you, Griphook. My 
birthday, seven years ago. 
The vault in question was empt
y at the time, snapped the gob-
lin, and Harry understood that ev
en though Griphook had left 
Gringotts, he was offended at the idea of its defenses being breached. 
Its protection was minimal. 
Well, the vault we need to get 
into isnt empty, and Im guess-
ing its protection will 
be pretty powerful, sa
id Harry. It belongs 
to the Lestranges. 
He saw Hermione and Ron look at
 each other, astonished, but 
there would be time enough to 
explain after Griphook had given 
his answer. 
You have no chance, said Grip
hook flatly. No chance at all. 
If 
you seek beneath our floors, a 
treasure that was never yours  
Thief, you have been warned, beware
  yeah, I know
, I remember, 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-FOUR  488  said Harry. But Im not trying to
 get myself any treasure, Im not 
trying to take anything for pers
onal gain. Can you believe that? 
The goblin looked slantwise at 
Harry, and the lightning scar on 
Harrys forehead prickled, but he ignored it, refusing to acknowl-
edge its pain or
 its invitation. 
If there was a wizard of whom I 
would believe that they did not 
seek personal gain, said Griphook
 finally, it would be you, Harry 
Potter. Goblins and elves are not us
ed to the protection or the re-
spect that you have sh
own this night. Not from wand-carriers. 
Wand-carriers, repeated Harry: 
The phrase fell oddly upon his 
ears as his scar prickled, as Voldemort turned his thoughts north-
ward, and as Harry burned to qu
estion Ollivander next door. The right to carry a wand, said 
the goblin quietly, has long 
been contested between wizards and goblins. 
Well, goblins can do magic 
without wands, said Ron. 
That is immaterial! Wizards refuse to share the secrets of wand-
lore with other magical beings, they
 deny us the possibility of ex-
tending our powers! 
Well, goblins wont share any of 
their magic either, said Ron. 
You wont tell us how to make
 swords and armor the way you 
do. Goblins know how to work 
metal in a way wizards have 
never  It doesnt matter, said Harry, noting Griphooks rising color. 
This isnt about wizards versus go
blins or any other sort of magi-
cal creature  
Griphook gave a nasty laugh. 
But it is, it is about precisely that! As the Dark Lord becomes 
ever more powerful, your race is set still more firmly above mine!  

 THE  WANDMAKER  489  Gringotts falls under Wizarding ru
le, house-elves are slaughtered, 
and who amongst the wand-carriers protests? 
We do! said Hermione. She had sa
t up straight, her eyes bright. 
We protest! And Im hunted quite as much as any goblin or elf, 
Griphook! Im a Mudblood! Dont call yourself  Ron muttered. 
Why shouldnt I? said Hermio
ne. Mudblood, and proud of 
it! Ive got no higher position under this new order than you have, 
Griphook! It was me they chose to torture, back at the Malfoys! 
As she spoke, she pulled aside th
e neck of the dressing gown to 
reveal the thin cut Bellatrix had made, scarlet against her throat. 
Did you know that it was Harry
 who set Dobby free? she asked. 
Did you know that weve wanted elves to be freed for years? (Ron 
fidgeted uncomfortably on the arm 
of Hermiones chair.) You cant 
want You-Know-Who defeated more than we do, Griphook! The goblin gazed at Hermione wi
th the same curiosity he had 
shown Harry. 
What do you seek within the 
Lestranges vault? he asked 
abruptly. The sword that lies inside it is a fake. This is the real 
one. He looked from one to the other of them. I think that you 

already know this. You asked me
 to lie for you back there. 
But the fake sword isnt the only t
hing in that vault, is it? asked 
Harry. Perhaps you
ve seen the other things in there? 
His heart was pounding harder than ever. He redoubled his ef-
forts to ignore the pulsing of his scar. 
The goblin twisted his beard 
around his finger again. 
It is against our code to speak of the secrets of Gringotts. We 
are the guardians of fabulous treasures. We have a duty to the  

 CHAPTER  TWENTY-FOUR  490  objects placed in our care, which 
were, so often, wrought by our 
fingers. 
The goblin stroked the sword, 
and his black eyes roved from 
Harry to Hermione to Ron and then back again. 
So young, he said finally, to be fighting so many. 
Will you help us? said Harry. 
We havent got a hope of break-
ing in without a goblins he
lp. Youre our one chance. 
I shall . . . think about it, said Griphook maddeningly. 
But  Ron started angrily; He
rmione nudged him in the ribs. 
Thank you, said Harry. 

The goblin bowed his great domed
 head in acknowledgement, 
then flexed his short legs. 
I think, he said, se
ttling himself ostentatiously upon Bill and 
Fleurs bed, that the Skele-Gro has 
finished its work. I may be able 
to sleep at last. 
Forgive me. . . . 
Yeah, of course, said Harry, but before leaving the room he 
leaned forward and took the sword 
of Gryffindor from beside the 
goblin. Griphook did not protest, 
but Harry thought he saw resent-
ment in the goblins eyes as he closed the door upon him. 
Little git, whispered Ron. 
Hes enjoying keeping us 
hanging. Harry, whispered Hermione, pulling them both away from 
the door, into the middle of the stil
l-dark landing, are you saying 
what I think youre saying? Are yo
u saying theres a Horcrux in the 
Lestranges vault? 
Yes, said Harry. Bellatrix was 
terrified when she thought wed 
been in there, she was 
beside herself. Why? What did she think wed 
seen, what else did she think we 
might have taken? Something she 
was petrified You-Know-Who would find out about. 
THE  WANDMAKER  491  But I thought we were looking 
for places You-Know-Whos been, 
places hes done something importan
t? said Ron, looking baffled. 
Was he ever inside the Lestranges vault? 
I dont know whether he was ever
 inside Gringotts, said Harry. 
He never had gold there when he
 was younger, because nobody 
left him anything. He 
would have seen the bank
 from the outside, 
though, the first time he ever went to Diagon Alley. 
Harrys scar throbbed, but he ig
nored it; he wanted Ron and 
Hermione to understand about Gr
ingotts before they spoke to 
Ollivander. I think he would have envied anyone who had a key to a Grin-
gotts vault. I think hed have seen 
it as a real symb
ol of belonging 
to the Wizarding world. And dont forget, he trusted Bellatrix and 
her husband. They were his most de
voted servants before he fell, and 
they went looking for him after he vanished. He said it the night he 

came back, I heard him. 
Harry rubbed his scar. 
I dont think hed have told Be
llatrix it was a Horcrux, though. 
He never told Lucius 
Malfoy the truth about 
the diary. He prob-
ably told her it was a treasured po
ssession and asked her to place it 
in her vault. The safest place in 
the world for anything you want to 
hide, Hagrid told me . . 
. except for Hogwarts. 
When Harry had finished speaking, Ron shook his head. 

You really understand him. 
Bits of him, said Harry. Bits . . . I just wish Id understood Dum-
bledore as much. But well see.
 Come on  Ollivander now. 
Ron and Hermione looked bewild
ered but impressed as they 
followed him across the little la
nding and knocked upon the door 
opposite Bill and Fl
eurs. A weak Come in! answered them. 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-FOUR  492  The wandmaker was lying on the 
twin bed farthest from the 
window. He had been held in the ce
llar for more than a year, and 
tortured, Harry knew, on at least 
one occasion. He was emaciated, 
the bones of his face sticking out 
sharply against the yellowish skin. 
His great silver eyes seemed vast 
in their sunken sockets. The hands 
that lay upon the blan
ket could have belonged
 to a skeleton. Harry 
sat down on the empty bed, beside
 Ron and Hermione. The rising 
sun was not visible here. The room
 faced the cliff-top garden and 
the freshly dug grave. 
Mr. Ollivander, Im sorry to
 disturb you, Harry said. 
My dear boy. Ollivanders voice was feeble. You rescued us. I 
thought we would die in that place. I can never thank you . . . 
never thank you . . . enough. We were glad to do it. 
Harrys scar throbbed. He knew, he
 was certain, that there was 
hardly any time left in
 which to beat Voldemort to his goal, or else 
to attempt to thwart him. He felt a flutter of panic . . . yet he had 
made his decision when he chose to
 speak to Griphook first. Feign-
ing a calm he did not feel, he grop
ed in the pouch around his neck 
and took out the two halves of his broken wand. 
Mr. Ollivander, I need some help. 
Anything. Anything, said the wandmaker weakly. 
Can you mend this? 
Is it possible? 
Ollivander held out a tremblin
g hand, and Harry placed the two 
barely connected halves into his palm. 
Holly and phoenix feather, sa
id Ollivander in a tremulous 
voice. Eleven inches. Nice and supple. 
Yes, said Harry. Can you  ? 

No, whispered Ollivander. I am sorry, very sorry, but a wand 
THE  WANDMAKER  493  that has suffered this degree of 
damage cannot be repaired by any 
means that I know of. 
Harry had been braced to hear it, 
but it was a blow nevertheless. 
He took the wand halves back 
and replaced them in the pouch 
around his neck. Ollivander stared at the place where the shat-
tered wand had vanished, and did not look away until Harry had 
taken from his pocket the two 
wands he had brought from the 
Malfoys. 
Can you identify these? Harry asked. 
The wandmaker took the first of 
the wands and held it close to 
his faded eyes, rolling it between hi
s knobble-knuckled fingers, flex-
ing it slightly. 
Walnut and dragon heartstring, he said. Twelve-and-three-
quarter inches. Unyielding. This
 wand belonged to Bellatrix 
Lestrange. 
And this one? 
Ollivander performed the same examination. 
Hawthorn and unicorn hair. Ten inches precisely. Reasonably 
springy. This was the wa
nd of Draco Malfoy. Was? repeated Harry. 
Isnt it still his? 
Perhaps not. If you took it  
 I did  
 then it may be yours. Of co
urse, the manner of taking mat-
ters. Much also depends upon the 
wand itself. In general, however, 
where a wand has been won, 
its allegiance will change. There was silence in the room, ex
cept for the distant rushing of 
the sea. You talk about wands like theyv
e got feelings, said Harry, like 
they can think for themselves. CHAPTER  TWENTY-FOUR  494  The wand chooses the wizard, said Ollivander. That much has always been clear to those of 
us who have studied wandlore. 
A person can still use a wand th
at hasnt chosen them, though? 
asked Harry. Oh yes, if you are any wizard at 
all you will be 
able to channel 
your magic through almost any in
strument. The best results, how-
ever, must always come where there 
is the strongest affinity between 
wizard and wand. These connections 
are complex. An initial attrac-
tion, and then a mutual quest for 
experience, the wand learning 
from the wizard, the wizard from the wand. 
The sea gushed forward and backward; it was a mournful 
sound. 
I took this wand from Draco Ma
lfoy by force, said Harry. Can 
I use it safely? I think so. Subtle laws govern
 wand ownership, but the con-
quered wand will usually bend 
its will to its new master. 
So I should use this one? said Ron, pulling Wormtails wand 
out of his pocket and handing it to Ollivander. 
Chestnut and dragon heartstring. Nine-and-a-quarter inches. 
Brittle. I was forced to make this
 shortly after my kidnapping, for 
Peter Pettigrew. Yes, if you won it, 
it is more likely to do your bid-
ding, and do it well, 
than another wand. 
And this holds true for all 
wands, does it? asked Harry. 
I think so, replied Ollivander
, his protuberant eyes upon Har-
rys face. You ask deep questions, 
Mr. Potter. Wandlore is a complex 
and mysterious br
anch of magic. 
So, it isnt necessary to
 kill the previous owner to take true pos-
session of a wand? asked Harry. 
Ollivander swallowed. 
THE  WANDMAKER  495  Necessary? No, I should not say that it is necessary to kill. 
There are legends, though, said Harry, and as his heart rate 
quickened, the pain in his scar be
came more intense; he was sure 
that Voldemort had decided to put his idea into action. Legends 
about a wand  or wands  that 
have passed from hand to hand 
by murder. 
Ollivander turned pale. Against the snowy pillow he was light 
gray, and his eyes were enormous, 
bloodshot, and bulging with what 
looked like fear. 
Only one wand, I think, he whispered. 

And You-Know-Who is interested in it, isnt he? asked Harry. 
I  how? croaked Ollivander, 
and he looked appealingly at 
Ron and Hermione for help. 
How do you know this? He wanted you to tell him how to overcome the connection 
between our wands, said Harry. 
Ollivander looked terrified. 
He tortured me, you must unders
tand that! The Cruciatus Curse, I  I had no choice but to tell hi
m what I knew, what I guessed! 
I understand, said Harry. You 
told him about the twin cores? 
You said he just had to borr
ow another wizards wand? 
Ollivander looked horrified, transfixed, by the amount that Harry 
knew. He nodded slowly. But it didnt work, Harry went
 on. Mine still beat the bor-
rowed wand. Do you know why that is? 
Ollivander shook his head as sl
owly as he had just nodded. I had . . . never heard of such
 a thing. Your wand performed 
something unique that night. The 
connection of the twin cores is 
incredibly rare, yet why your wa
nd should have snapped the bor-
rowed wand, I do not know. . . . 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-FOUR  496  We were talking about the othe
r wand, the wand that changes 
hands by murder. When You-Know
-Who realized my wand had 
done something strange, he came 
back and asked about that other 
wand, didnt he? 
How do you know this? Harry did not answer. 
Yes, he asked, whispered Olliva
nder. He wanted to know ev-
erything I could tell him about 
the wand variously known as the 
Deathstick, the Wand of Destiny, or the Elder Wand. Harry glanced sideways at Hermione. She lo
oked flabbergasted. 
The Dark Lord, said Ollivander
 in hushed and frightened tones, 
had always been happy with 
the wand I made him  yew and 
phoenix feather, thirteen-and-a-hal
f inches  until he discovered 
the connection of the twin cores. 
Now he seeks another, more pow-
erful wand, as the only 
way to conquer yours. 
But hell know soon, if he doe
snt already, that mines broken 
beyond repair, said Harry quietly. 
No! said Hermione, sounding fr
ightened. He cant know that, 
Harry, how could he  ? 
Priori Incantatem, said Harry.
 We left your wand and the 
blackthorn wand at the Malfoys, 
Hermione. If they examine them 
properly, make them re-create the spells theyve cast lately, theyll 
see that yours broke mine, theyll 
see that you tried and failed to 
mend it, and theyll realize that 
Ive been using th
e blackthorn one 
ever since. 
The little color she had regained
 since their arrival had drained 
from her face. Ron gave Harry a re
proachful look, and said, Lets not worry about that now  
But Mr. Ollivander intervened. 
THE  WANDMAKER  497  The Dark Lord no longer seek
s the Elder Wand only for your 
destruction, Mr. Potter. He is de
termined to possess it because he 
believes it will make him truly invulnerable. 
And will it? 
The owner of the Elder Wand mu
st always fear attack, said 
Ollivander, but the idea of the 
Dark Lord in possession of the 
Deathstick is, I must admit . . . formidable. 
Harry was suddenly reminded of 
how he had been unsure, when 
they first met, of how much he 
liked Ollivander. Even now, having 
been tortured and imprisoned by Vo
ldemort, the idea of the Dark 
wizard in possession of this wand 
seemed to enthrall him as much 
as it repulsed him. 
You  you really think this wand
 exists, then, Mr. Ollivander? 
asked Hermione. 
Oh yes, said Ollivander. Yes, it is perfectly possible to trace the 
wands course through history. Ther
e are gaps, of course, and long 
ones, where it vanishes from view, temporarily lost or hidden; but 
always it resurfaces. It has certai
n identifying characteristics that 
those who are learned in wandlore 
recognize. There are written ac-
counts, some of them obscure, th
at I and other wandmakers have 
made it our business to study. They have the ring of authenticity. So you  you dont think it can be
 a fairy tale or a myth? Her-
mione asked hopefully. 
No, said Ollivander. Whether it 
needs to pass by murder, I do 
not know. Its history is bloody, but 
that may be simply due to the 
fact that it is such a desirable 
object, and arouses such passions in 
wizards. Immensely powerful, dang
erous in the wrong hands, and 
an object of incredible fascinatio
n to all of us who study the power 
of wands. CHAPTER  TWENTY-FOUR  498  Mr. Ollivander, said Harry, 
you told You-Know-Who that 
Gregorovitch had the Elder Wand, didnt you? Ollivander turned, if possible, ev
en paler. He looked ghostly as 
he gulped. 
But how  how do you  ? 
Never mind how I know it, said Harry, closing his eyes mo-
mentarily as his scar burned and he
 saw, for mere seconds, a vision 
of the main street in Hogsmeade, 
still dark, because it was so much 
farther north. You told You-Know-Who that Gregorovitch had 
the wand? It was a rumor, whispered Ollivander. A rumor, years and 
years ago, long before you were bo
rn! I believe Gregorovitch himself 
started it. You can see how good it 
would be for business: that he 
was studying and duplicating the 
qualities of the Elder Wand! 
Yes, I can see that, said Harry.
 He stood up. Mr. Ollivander, 
one last thing, and then well let you get some rest. What do you 
know about the Deathly Hallows? The  the what? asked the 
wandmaker, looking utterly 
bewildered. 
The Deathly Hallows. 

Im afraid I dont know what youre talking about. Is this still 
something to do with wands? Harry looked into the sunken face 
and believed that Ollivander 
was not acting. He did no
t know about the Hallows. 
Thank you, said Harry. Tha
nk you very much. Well leave 
you to get some rest now. 
Ollivander looked stricken. 
He was torturing me! he gasped
. The Cruciatus Curse . . . you 
have no idea. . . . 
THE  WANDMAKER  499  I do, said Harry. I really do. Please get some rest. Thank you 
for telling me all of this. 
He led Ron and Hermione down th
e staircase. Harry caught a 
glimpse of Bill, Fleur, Luna, and 
Dean sitting at the table in the 
kitchen, cups of tea in
 front of them. They al
l looked up at Harry as 
he appeared in the doorway, but he merely nodded to them and con-
tinued into the garden, Ron and 
Hermione behind him. The reddish 
mound of earth that covered Dobby
 lay ahead, and Harry walked 
back to it, as the pain in his he
ad built more and more powerfully. 
It was a huge effort now to clos
e down the visions that were forc-
ing themselves upon him, but he knew that he would have to resist 
only a little longer. He would yi
eld very soon, because he needed to 
know that his theory was right. He
 must make only one more short 
effort, so that he could explain to Ron and Hermione. 
Gregorovitch had the Elder Wand a long time ago, he said. 
I saw You-Know-Who trying to 
find him. When he tracked him 
down, he found that Gregorovitch 
didnt have it anymore: It was 
stolen from him by Grindelwald.
 How Grindelwald found out that 
Gregorovitch had it, I dont know 
 but if Gregorovitch was stupid 
enough to spread the rumor, it cant have been that difficult. 
Voldemort was at the gates of
 Hogwarts; Harry could see him 
standing there, and see too the lamp bobbing in the pre-dawn, com-ing closer and closer. And Grindelwald used the Elde
r Wand to become powerful. 
And at the height of his power,
 when Dumbledore knew he was 
the only one who could stop him, he dueled Grindelwald and beat 
him, and he took 
the Elder Wand. Dumbledore
 had the Elder Wand? said Ron. But then  where 
is it now? 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-FOUR  500  At Hogwarts, said Harry, fighting
 to remain with them in the 
cliff-top garden. 
But then, lets go! said Ron urge
ntly. Harry, lets go and get it 
before he does! 
Its too late for that, said Ha
rry. He could not help himself, 
but clutched his head, trying to he
lp it resist. He knows where it 
is. Hes there now. Harry! Ron said furiously. How long have you known this  
why have we been wasting time? 
Why did you talk to Griphook 
first? We could have gone  we could still go  
No, said Harry, and he sank to 
his knees in the grass. Hermi-
ones right. Dumbledore didnt want 
me to have it. He didnt want 
me to take it. He wanted 
me to get th
e Horcruxes. 
The unbeatable wand, Harry! moaned Ron. 
Im not supposed to . . . Im supposed to get the Horcruxes. . . . 

And now everything was cool and 
dark: The sun was barely vis-
ible over the horizon as he glided
 alongside Snape, up through the 
grounds toward the lake. 
I shall join you in the castle sh
ortly, he said in his high, cold 
voice. Leave me now. 
Snape bowed and set off back up 
the path, his black cloak billow-
ing behind him. Harry walked slowly
, waiting for Snapes figure to 
disappear. It would not do for Snape,
 or indeed anyone else, to see 
where he was going. But there were 
no lights in the castle windows, 
and he could conceal hims
elf . . . and in a seco
nd he had cast upon 
himself a Disillusionment Charm 
that hid him even from his own 
eyes. 
And he walked on, around the edge
 of the lake, taking in the out-
lines of the beloved castle, his fi
rst kingdom, his birthright. . . . 
THE  WANDMAKER  501  And here it was, beside the lake, 
reflected in the dark waters. The 
white marble tomb, an unnecessary 
blot on the familiar landscape. 
He felt again that rush of contro
lled euphoria, that heady sense of 
purpose in destruction. He rais
ed the old yew wand: How fitting 
that this would be its last great act. 
The tomb split open from head to
 foot. The shrouded figure was 
as long and thin as it had been in
 life. He raised the wand again. 
The wrappings fell open. The face was translucent, pale, sunken, 
yet almost perfectly preserved. They
 had left his spectacles on the 
crooked nose: He felt amused derision. Dumbledores hands were 

folded upon his chest, and there it
 lay, clutched beneath them, bur-
ied with him. 
Had the old fool imagined that 
marble or death would protect 
the wand? Had he thought that the 
Dark Lord would be scared to 
violate his tomb? The spiderlike 
hand swooped and pulled the wand 
from Dumbledores grasp, and as he 
took it, a shower of sparks flew 
from its tip, sparkling over the corp
se of its last owner, ready to serve 
a new master at last. C H A P T E R  T W E N T Y - F I V E   502  SHELL COTTAGE 
   ill and Fleurs cottage stood alon
e on a cliff overlooking the 
sea, its walls embedded with shells and whitewashed. It was 
a lonely and beautiful place. Wherever Harry went inside the tiny 

cottage or its garden, he could hear
 the constant ebb and flow of the 
sea, like the breathing of some great, slumbering creature. He spent 
much of the next few days making
 excuses to escape the crowded 
cottage, craving the cliff-top view 
of open sky and wide, empty sea, 
and the feel of cold, salty wind on his face. 
The enormity of his decision not 
to race Voldemort to the wand 
still scared Harry. He could not 
remember, ever before, choosing 
not to act. He was full of doubts,
 doubts that Ron could not help 
voicing whenever they were together. 
What if Dumbledore wanted us to
 work out the symbol in time 
to get the wand? What if working out what the symbol meant made 
you worthy to get the Hallows? H
arry, if that really is the Elder 
Wand, how the hell are we supposed to finish off You-Know-Who? 
B SHELL  COTTAGE  503  Harry had no answers: There we
re moments when he wondered 
whether it had been outright mad
ness not to try to prevent Volde-
mort breaking open the tomb. He 
could not even explain satisfacto-rily why he had decided against it: 
Every time he tried to reconstruct 
the internal arguments that had led to his decision, they sounded 
feebler to him. 
The odd thing was that Hermiones
 support made him feel just 
as confused as Rons doubts. Now forced to accept that the Elder 
Wand was real, she maintained that 
it was an evil object, and that 
the way Voldemort had taken possession of it was repellent, not to 

be considered. 
You could never have done th
at, Harry, she said again and 
again. You couldnt
 have broken into Dumbledores grave. 
But the idea of Dumbledores corp
se frightened Harry much less 
than the possibility that he mi
ght have misunderstood the living 
Dumbledores intentions. He felt that he was still groping in the 
dark; he had chosen his path bu
t kept looking back, wondering 
whether he had misread the signs, 
whether he should not have taken the other way. From time to time, anger at Dumbledore crashed over 
him again, powerful as the waves 
slamming themselves against the 
cliff beneath the cottage, anger 
that Dumbledore had not explained 
before he died. 
But is he dead? said Ron, three days after they had arrived at the 
cottage. Harry had been st
aring out over the wall
 that separated the 
cottage garden from the cliff wh
en Ron and Hermione had found 
him; he wished they had not, having
 no wish to join in with their 
argument. 
Yes, he is, Ron, 
please
 dont start that again! 
Look at the facts, Hermione, sa
id Ron, speaking across Harry, 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-FIVE  504  who continued to gaze at the hori
zon. The silver doe. The sword. 
The eye Harry saw in the mirror  
Harry admits he could have imagined the eye! Dont you, 
Harry? 
I could have, said Harry without looking at her. 
But you dont think you did, do you? asked Ron. 
No, I dont, said Harry. 
There you go! said Ron quickly, before Hermione could carry 
on. If it wasnt Dumbledore, explain how Dobby knew we were in 
the cellar, Hermione? 
I cant  but can yo
u explain how Dumbledore sent him to us 
if hes lying in a tomb at Hogwarts? 
I dunno, it couldve been his ghost! 
Dumbledore wouldnt come back 
as a ghost, said Harry. There 
was little about Dumbledore he was 
sure of now, but he knew that 
much. He would have gone on. 
What dyou mean, gone on? 
asked Ron, but before Harry 
could say any more, a voice behind them said, Arry? 
Fleur had come out of the cottage, 
her long silver hair flying in 
the breeze. Arry, Gripook would like to spea
k to you. E eez in ze smallest 
bedroom, e says e does not want to be overeard. 
Her dislike of the goblin sending her to deliver messages was 
clear; she looked irritable as sh
e walked back around the house. 
Griphook was waiting for them, as
 Fleur had said, in the tiniest 
of the cottages three 
bedrooms, in which Hermione and Luna slept 
by night. He had drawn the red cotton curtains against the bright, 
cloudy sky, which gave the room a 
fiery glow at odds with the rest 
of the airy, light cottage. 
SHELL  COTTAGE  505  I have reached my decision, Ha
rry Potter, said the goblin, who 
was sitting cross-legged in a low ch
air, drumming its arms with his 
spindly fingers. Though the goblin
s of Gringotts will consider it 
base treachery, I have 
decided to help you  Thats great! said Harry, reli
ef surging through him. Griphook, 
thank you, were really   in return, said the goblin firmly, for payment. 

Slightly taken aback, Harry hesitated. 
How much do you want? Ive got gold. 
Not gold, said Griphook. I have gold. 

His black eyes glittered; there 
were no whites to his eyes. 
I want the sword. The sword of Godric Gryffindor. Harrys spirits plummeted. 
You cant have that, he said. Im sorry. 
Then, said the goblin so
ftly, we have a problem. 
We can give you something else, 
said Ron eagerly. Ill bet the 
Lestranges have got loads of stuff, you can take your pick once we 
get into the vault. 
He had said the wrong thing. Griphook flushed angrily. 
I am not a thief, boy! I am no
t trying to procure treasures to 
which I have no right! 
The swords ours  
It is not, said the goblin. 

Were Gryffindors, and it 
was Godric Gryf
findors  And before it was Gryffindors
, whose was it? demanded the 
goblin, sitting up straight. 
No ones, said Ron. It was made for him, wasnt it? 
No! cried the goblin, bristling with anger as he pointed a long 
finger at Ron. Wizarding arroga
nce again! That sword was Ragnuk 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-FIVE  506  the Firsts, taken from him by Godric Gryffindor! It is a lost treasure, 
a masterpiece of goblinwork! It be
longs with the goblins! The sword 
is the price of my hire, 
take it or leave it! 
Griphook glared at them. Harry gl
anced at the other two, then 
said, We need to discuss this, Grip
hook, if thats all right. Could 
you give us a few minutes? 
The goblin nodded, looking sour. Downstairs in the empty sitting 
room, Harry walked to the fire-
place, brow furrowed, trying to 
think what to do. Behind him, Ron 
said, Hes having a laugh. We 
cant let him have that sword. 
It is true? Harry asked Hermio
ne. Was the sword stolen by 
Gryffindor? I dont know, she said hopelessly
. Wizarding hist
ory often skates over what the wizards have done to
 other magical races, but theres 
no account that I know of that 
says Gryffindor stole the sword. 
Itll be one of those 
goblin stories, said Ron, about how the wiz-
ards are always trying to get one over on them. I suppose we should 
think ourselves lucky he hasnt
 asked for one of our wands. Goblins have got good reason to dislike wizards, Ron, said Her-
mione. Theyve been treate
d brutally in the past. 
Goblins arent exactly fluffy litt
le bunnies, though, are they? 
said Ron. Theyve killed plenty of us. Theyve fought dirty too. 
But arguing with Griphook about whose race is most under-
handed and violent isnt 
going to make him more
 likely to help us, 
is it? 
There was a pause while they tried to think of a way around the 
problem. Harry looked out of the window at Dobbys grave. Luna 
was arranging sea lavender in a jam jar beside the headstone. 
Okay, said Ron, and Harry turned
 back to face him, hows 
SHELL  COTTAGE  507  this? We tell Griphook we need the sword until we get inside the 
vault, and then he can have it. Theres a fake in there, isnt there? 

We switch them, and give him the fake. 
Ron, hed know the difference bett
er than we would! said Her-
mione. Hes the only one who re
alized there had been a swap! 
Yeah, but we could scarper before he realizes  
He quailed beneath the look Hermione was giving him. 
That, she said quietly, is de
spicable. Ask for his help, then 
double-cross him? And you wonder 
why goblins dont like wizards, 
Ron? Rons ears had turned red. 
All right, all right! It was the on
ly thing I could think of! Whats 
your solution, then? We need to offer him somethin
g else, something just as 
valuable. Brilliant. Ill go and get one of
 our other ancient goblin-made 
swords and you can gift wrap it. 
Silence fell between them again. 
Harry was sure that the goblin 
would accept nothing but the sword, even if they had something 
as valuable to offer hi
m. Yet the sword was th
eir one, indispensable 
weapon against the Horcruxes. 
He closed his eyes for a moment or two and listened to the rush 
of the sea. The idea that Gryffi
ndor might have stolen the sword 
was unpleasant to him: He had alwa
ys been proud to 
be a Gryffindor; 
Gryffindor had been the champion
 of Muggle-borns, the wizard 
who had clashed with the pureblood-loving Slytherin. . . . Maybe hes lying, Harry said, op
ening his eyes again. Griphook. 
Maybe Gryffindor didnt take th
e sword. How do we know the 
goblin version of 
historys right? 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-FIVE  508  Does it make a differ
ence? asked Hermione. 
Changes how I feel ab
out it, said Harry. 
He took a deep breath. 
Well tell him he can have the sword after hes helped us get 
into that vault  but well be ca
reful to avoid telling him exactly 
when
 he can have it. 
A grin spread slowly across Rons face. Hermione, however, 
looked alarmed. 
Harry, we cant  He can have it, Harry went on, 
after weve used it on all of 
the Horcruxes. Ill make sure he gets it then. Ill keep my word. 
But that could be ye
ars! said Hermione. 
I know that, but he neednt. I wont be 
lying . . . really. Harry met her eyes with a mixtur
e of defiance and shame. He 
remembered the words that had b
een engraved over the gateway to 
Nurmengard: 
For the Greater Good
. He pushed the idea away. 
What choice did they have? 
I dont like it, said Hermione. 
Nor do I, much, Harry admitted. 
Well, I think its genius, said 
Ron, standing up again. Lets 
go and tell him. 
Back in the smallest bedroom, 
Harry made the offer, careful to 
phrase it so as not to give any d
efinite time for th
e handover of the 
sword. Hermione frowned at the floor while he was speaking; he felt 
irritated at her, afraid that she might give the game away. However, 
Griphook had eyes for nobody but Harry. 
I have your word, Harry Potter, 
that you will give me the sword 
of Gryffindor if I help you? Yes, said Harry. 
SHELL  COTTAGE  509  Then shake, said the gobl
in, holding out his hand. Harry took it and shook. He wond
ered whether those black eyes 
saw any misgivings in his own. Then Griphook relinquished him, 
clapped his hands together, 
and said, So. We begin! 
It was like planning to break in
to the Ministry all over again. 
They settled to work in the smallest bedroom, which was kept, ac-
cording to Griphooks preference, in semidarkness. 
I have visited the Lestranges va
ult only once, Griphook told 
them, on the occasion I was told to 
place inside it the false sword. It 
is one of the most ancient chambe
rs. The oldest Wizarding families 
store their treasures at the deepest 
level, where the vaults are largest 
and best protected. . . . 
They remained shut in the cupboardlike room for hours at a time. 
Slowly the days stretched into we
eks. There was problem after prob-
lem to overcome, not least of which 
was that their store of Polyjuice 
Potion was greatly depleted. 
Theres really only enough left for one of us, said Hermione, 
tilting the thick mudlike potion against the lamplight. Thatll be enough, said Harry,
 who was examin
ing Griphooks 
hand-drawn map of the 
deepest passageways. 
The other inhabitants of Shell Cott
age could hardly fail to notice 
that something was going on now 
that Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
only emerged for mealtimes. Nob
ody asked questions, although 
Harry often felt Bills eyes on the three of them at the table, thought-
ful, concerned. 
The longer they spent together, th
e more Harry realized that he 
did not much like the goblin. Gr
iphook was unexpectedly blood-
thirsty, laughed at the idea of pain
 in lesser creatures, and seemed 
to relish the possibility that they might have to hurt other wizards 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-FIVE  510  to reach the Lestranges vault. Harr
y could tell that his distaste was 
shared by the other two, but they
 did not discuss it: They needed 
Griphook. 
The goblin ate only grudgingly with the rest of them. Even after 
his legs had mended, he continued 
to request trays of food in his 
room, like the still-frail Ollivander
, until Bill (following an angry 
outburst from Fleur) went upstairs
 to tell him that the arrangement 
could not continue. Thereafter Griphook joined them at the over-
crowded table, although he refused 
to eat the same food, insisting, 
instead, on lumps of raw meat
, roots, and various fungi. Harry felt responsible: It was, afte
r all, he who had insisted that 
the goblin remain at Shell Cottag
e so that he could question him; 
his fault that the whole Weasley fa
mily had been driven into hiding, 
that Bill, Fred, George, and Mr. Weasley could no longer work. 
Im sorry, he told Fleur, one bl
ustery April evening as he helped 
her prepare dinner. I never meant yo
u to have to deal with all of 
this. She had just set some knives to
 work, chopping up steaks for 
Griphook and Bill, who had prefe
rred his meat bloody ever since 
he had been attacked by Greyback
. While the knives sliced away 
behind her, her somewhat irritable expression softened. 
Arry, you saved my sister
s life, I do not forget. 
This was not, strictly speaking
, true, but Harry decided against 
reminding her that Gabrielle had never been in real danger. 
Anyway, Fleur went on, pointing 
her wand at a pot of sauce on 
the stove, which began to bubble at
 once, Mr. Olli
vander leaves 
for Muriels zis evening. Zat will 
make zings easier. Ze goblin, she 
scowled a little at the mention of
 him, can move downstairs, and 
you, Ron, and Dean can take zat room. 
SHELL  COTTAGE  511  We dont mind sleeping in the li
ving room, said Harry, who 
knew that Griphook wo
uld think poorly of ha
ving to sleep on the 
sofa; keeping Griphook happy was e
ssential to their plans. Dont 
worry about us. And when she tried 
to protest he went on, Well 
be off your hands soon too, Ron,
 Hermione, and I. We wont need 
to be here much longer. 
But what do you mean? she sa
id, frowning at him, her wand 
pointing at the casserole dish no
w suspended in midair. Of course 
you must not leave, you are safe ere! 
She looked rather like Mrs. Weas
ley as she said it, and he was 
glad that the back door opened 
at that moment. Luna and Dean 
entered, their hair damp from the 
rain outside and their arms full 
of driftwood. . . . and tiny little ears, Luna was saying, a bit like a hippos, 
Daddy says, only purple and hairy.
 And if you want to call them, 
you have to hum; they prefer a waltz, nothing too fast. . . . 
Looking uncomfortable, Dean sh
rugged at Harry as he passed, 
following Luna into the combined dining and sitting room where 
Ron and Hermione were laying the 
dinner table. Seizing the chance 
to escape Fleurs questions, Ha
rry grabbed two jugs of pumpkin 
juice and followed them. 
. . . and if you ever come to ou
r house Ill be able to show you 
the horn, Daddy wrote to me about it but I havent seen it yet, be-

cause the Death Eaters took me 
from the Hogwarts Express and I 
never got home for Christmas, Lu
na was saying, as she and Dean 
relaid the fire. 
Luna, we told you, Hermione ca
lled over to her. That horn 
exploded. It came from an Erumpent, not a Crumple-Horned 

Snorkack  
CHAPTER  TWENTY-FIVE  512  No, it was definitely a Snorkack horn, said Luna serenely. 
Daddy told me. It will probably have re-formed by now, they mend 

themselves, you know. 
Hermione shook her head and co
ntinued laying down forks as 
Bill appeared, leading Mr. Olliva
nder down the stairs. The wand-
maker still looked except
ionally frail, and he cl
ung to Bills arm as 
the latter supported him, carrying a large suitcase. 
Im going to miss you, Mr. Olli
vander, said Luna, approaching 
the old man. And I you, my dear, said Olliva
nder, patting her on the shoulder. 
You were an inexpressi
ble comfort to me in that terrible place. 
So, au revoir,
 Mr. Ollivander, said Fleur, kissing him on both 
cheeks. And I wonder whezzer you 
could oblige me by delivering 
a package to Bills Auntie Muri
el? I never returned er tiara. 
It will be an honor, said Olliva
nder with a little bow, the very 
least I can do in return for 
your generous hospitality. 
Fleur drew out a worn velvet ca
se, which she opened to show the 
wandmaker. The tiara sat glittering and twinkling in the light from 
the low-hanging lamp. 
Moonstones and diamonds, said 
Griphook, who had sidled into 
the room without Harry noticing. Made by goblins, I think? And paid for by wizards, said Bill quietly, and the goblin shot 
him a look that was both 
furtive and challenging. A strong wind gusted against the cottage windows as Bill and 
Ollivander set off into the night.
 The rest of them squeezed in 
around the table; elbow to elbow 
and with barely enough room to 
move, they started to eat. The fire
 crackled and popped in the grate 
beside them. Fleur, Harry noticed,
 was merely playing with her 
food; she glanced at the window every few minutes; however, Bill 
SHELL  COTTAGE  513  returned before they had finished 
their first course, his long hair 
tangled by the wind. Everythings fine, he told Fleu
r. Ollivander settled in, Mum 
and Dad say hello. Ginny sends yo
u all her love. Fred and George 
are driving Muriel up the wall, th
eyre still operating an Owl-Order 
business out of her back room. It 
cheered her up to have her tiara 
back, though. She said she thought wed stolen it. 
Ah, she eez 
charmante, your aunt, said Fleur crossly, waving 
her wand and causing th
e dirty plates to rise
 and form a stack in 
midair. She caught them an
d marched out of the room. 
Daddys made a tiara, piped up Luna. Well, more of a crown, 
really. 
Ron caught Harrys eye and grin
ned; Harry knew that he was 
remembering the ludicrous headdres
s they had seen on their visit 
to Xenophilius. 
Yes, hes trying to re-create th
e lost diadem of Ravenclaw. He 
thinks hes identified most of th
e main elements now. Adding the 
billywig wings really made a difference  
There was a bang on the front 
door. Everyones head turned to-
ward it. Fleur came running out of
 the kitchen, looking frightened; 
Bill jumped to his feet, his wand
 pointing at the door; Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione did the same. Silently Griphook slipped beneath the 
table, out of sight. 
Who is it? Bill called. 
It is I, Remus John Lupin! ca
lled a voice over the howling 
wind. Harry experienced a thrill of
 fear; what had happened? I am 
a werewolf, married to Nymphadora Tonks, and you, the Secret-
Keeper of Shell Cottage, told me 
the address and bade me come in 
an emergency! 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-FIVE  514  Lupin, muttered Bill, and he ran to the door and wrenched it 
open. Lupin fell over the threshold. He
 was white-faced,
 wrapped in a 
traveling cloak, his graying hair windswept. He straightened up, 
looked around the room, making su
re of who was there, then cried 
aloud, Its a boy! Weve named him Ted, after Doras father! 
Hermione shrieked. 

Wha  ? Tonks  Tonk
s has had the baby? Yes, yes, shes had the baby! shouted Lupin. All around the 
table came cries of delight, sighs 
of relief: Hermione and Fleur both 
squealed, Congratulations! and Ro
n said, Blimey, a baby! as if 
he had never heard of such a thing before. 
Yes  yes  a boy, said Lupin again, who seemed dazed by 
his own happiness. He strode arou
nd the table and hugged Harry; 
the scene in the basement of Gr
immauld Place might never have 
happened. Youll be godfather? he said as he released Harry. 
M-me? stammered Harry You, yes, of course  Dora qu
ite agrees, no one better  
I  yeah  blimey  

Harry felt overwhelmed, astonished, delighted; now Bill was hur-
rying to fetch wine, and Fleur was persuading Lupin to join them 
for a drink. 
I cant stay long, I must get ba
ck, said Lupin, beaming around 
at them all: He looked years youn
ger than Harry had ever seen him. 
Thank you, thank you, Bill. 
Bill had soon filled all of their 
goblets, they stood and raised 
them high in a toast. 

 SHELL  COTTAGE  515  To Teddy Remus Lupin, said Lu
pin, a great wizard in the 
making! 
Oo does e look li
ke? Fleur inquired. 
I think he looks like Dora, but she thinks he is like me. Not 
much hair. It looked black when he 
was born, but I swear its turned 
ginger in the hour since. Probably
 be blond by the time I get back. 
Andromeda says Tonkss hair started changing color the day that she 

was born. He drained his goblet. O
h, go on then, just one more, 
he added, beaming, as Bill made to fill it again. 
The wind buffeted the little cottage
 and the fire le
apt and crackled, and Bill was soon opening another bottle of wine. Lupins news 
seemed to have taken them out of
 themselves, removed them for a 
while from their state of siege: Ti
dings of new life were exhilarating. 
Only the goblin seemed untouche
d by the suddenly festive atmo-
sphere, and after a while he slunk 
back to the bedroom he now oc-
cupied alone. Harry thought he wa
s the only one who had noticed 
this, until he saw Bills eyes fo
llowing the goblin up the stairs. 
No . . . no . . . I really must get 
back, said Lupin at last, declin-
ing yet another goblet of wine. 
He got to his feet and pulled his 
traveling cloak back around himself. 
Good-bye, good-bye  Ill try and 
bring some pict
ures in a few 
days time  theyll all be so glad to know that Ive seen you  
He fastened his cloak and made his farewells, hugging the women 
and grasping hands with the men, th
en, still beaming, returned into 
the wild night. Godfather, Harry! said Bill as 
they walked into the kitchen 
together, helping clear the table. A real honor! 
Congratulations! 
As Harry set down the empty goblets he was carrying, Bill pulled  
 CHAPTER  TWENTY-FIVE  516  the door behind him closed, shutting 
out the still-voluble voices of the 
others, who were continuing to ce
lebrate even in Lupins absence. 
I wanted a private word, actually, 
Harry. It hasnt been easy to 
get an opportunity with the cottage this full of people. 
Bill hesitated. Harry, youre planning something with Griphook. 
It was a statement, not a questi
on, and Harry did 
not bother to 
deny it. He merely look
ed at Bill, waiting. 
I know goblins, said Bill. Iv
e worked for Gringotts ever since 
I left Hogwarts. As far as there 
can be friendship between wizards 
and goblins, I have goblin friend
s  or, at least, goblins I know 
well, and like. Again, Bill hesitated. Harry, what do you want from 
Griphook, and what have you 
promised him in return? 
I cant tell you that, said Harry. Sorry, Bill. 
The kitchen door opened behind them
; Fleur was trying to bring 
through more empty goblets. 
Wait, Bill told her. Just a moment. 
She backed out and he cl
osed the door again. Then I have to say this, Bill 
went on. If you have struck any 
kind of bargain with Griphook, an
d most particularly if that bar-
gain involves treasure, you must 
be exceptionally careful. Goblin 
notions of ownership, payment, and repayment are not the same as 

human ones. 
Harry felt a slight squirm of disc
omfort, as though a small snake 
had stirred inside him. 
What do you mean? he asked. We are talking about a different breed of being, said Bill.  
 SHELL  COTTAGE  517  Dealings between wizards and gobl
ins have been fraught for cen-
turies  but youll know all that 
from History of 
Magic. There has 
been fault on both sides, I would 
never claim that wizards have been innocent. However, there is a beli
ef among some goblins, and those 
at Gringotts are perhaps most pro
ne to it, that wizards cannot be 
trusted in matters of gold and treasure, that they have no respect 
for goblin ownership. 
I respect  Harry began,
 but Bill shook his head. 
You dont understand, Harry, nobody could understand unless 
they have lived with goblins. To 
a goblin, the rightful and true mas-
ter of any object is the maker, not the purchaser. All goblin-made 
objects are, in goblin ey
es, rightfully theirs. 
But if it was bought  
 then they would consider it rented by the one who had 
paid the money. They have, however,
 great difficulty with the idea 
of goblin-made objects passing fr
om wizard to wizard. You saw 
Griphooks face when the tiara passed under his eyes. He disap-
proves. I believe he thinks, as do 
the fiercest of his kind, that it 
ought to have been returned to th
e goblins once the original pur-
chaser died. They consider our habit of keeping goblin-made objects, 

passing them from wizard to wizard without further payment, little 
more than theft. Harry had an ominous feeling now;
 he wondered whether Bill 
guessed more than he was letting on. 
All I am saying, said Bill, setting his hand on the door back into 
the sitting room, is to be very careful what you promise goblins, 
Harry. It would be less dangerous 
to break into Gringotts than to 
renege on a promise to a goblin. 

 CHAPTER  TWENTY-FIVE  518  Right, said Harry as Bill opened
 the door, yeah. Thanks. Ill 
bear that in mind. 
As he followed Bill back to the ot
hers a wry thought came to him, 
born no doubt of the wine he had 
drunk. He seemed set on course 
to become just as reckless a godfat
her to Teddy Lupin as Sirius Black 
had been to him. 
C H A P T E R  T W E N T Y - S I X   519  GRINGOTTS 
   heir plans were made, their preparations complete; in the 
smallest bedroom a single long, coarse black hair (plucked 
from the sweater Hermione had be
en wearing at Malfoy Manor) 
lay curled in a small glass phial on the mantelpiece. 
And youll be using her actual
 wand, said Harry, nodding to-
ward the walnut wand, so I reckon youll be pretty convincing. 
Hermione looked frightened that 
the wand might sting or bite 
her as she picked it up. 
I hate this thing, she said in a lo
w voice. I really hate it. It feels 
all wrong, it doesnt work properly
 for me. . . . Its like a bit of 
her. Harry could not help but reme
mber how Hermione had dis-
missed his loathing of the blacktho
rn wand, insisting that he was 
imagining things when it did not work as well as his own, telling 

him to simply practice. He chose not to repeat her own advice back 
to her, however; the eve of their 
attempted assault on Gringotts felt 
like the wrong moment to antagonize her. 
T CHAPTER  TWENTY-SIX  520  Itll probably help you get in character, though, said Ron. 
Think what that wands done! 
But thats my point! said He
rmione. This is the wand that 
tortured Nevilles mum and dad,
 and who knows how many other 
people? This is the wand
 that killed Sirius! Harry had not thought of that: He
 looked down at the wand and 
was visited by a brutal urge to snap it, to slice it in half with Gryf-

findors sword, which was propped against the wall beside him. 
I miss 
my wand, Hermione said mise
rably. I wish Mr. Olli-
vander could have made me another one too. Mr. Ollivander had sent Luna 
a new wand that morning. She 
was out on the back lawn at that 
moment, testing its capabilities in 
the late afternoon sun. Dean, who ha
d lost his wand to the Snatchers, was watching rather gloomily. 
Harry looked down at the hawthorn wand that had once be-
longed to Draco Malfoy. He had 
been surprised, but pleased, to 
discover that it worked for him at least as well as Hermiones had 
done. Remembering what Ollivander
 had told them of the secret 
workings of wands, Harry thought 
he knew what Hermiones prob-
lem was: She had not won the walnut
 wands allegiance by taking 
it personally from Bellatrix. The door of the bedroom opened and Griphook entered. Harry 
reached instinctively for the hilt of
 the sword and drew it close to 
him, but regretted his action at once: He could tell that the gob-
lin had noticed. Seeking to gloss 
over the sticky moment, he said, 
Weve just been checking the last-minute stuff, Griphook. Weve 
told Bill and Fleur were leaving to
morrow, and weve told them not 
to get up to see us off. 
They had been firm on this po
int, because Hermione would need 
GRINGOTTS  521  to transform into Bellatrix before th
ey left, and the less that Bill and 
Fleur knew or suspected about wh
at they were about to do, the 
better. They had also explained th
at they would not be returning. 
As they had lost Perkinss old tent
 on the night that the Snatchers 
caught them, Bill had lent them 
another one. It was now packed 
inside the beaded bag, which, Ha
rry was impressed to learn, Her-
mione had protected from the Snatch
ers by the simple expedient of 
stuffing it down her sock. 
Though he would miss Bill, Fleu
r, Luna, and Dean, not to men-
tion the home comforts they had 
enjoyed over the last few weeks, 
Harry was looking forward to esca
ping the confinement of Shell 
Cottage. He was tired of trying to
 make sure that they were not 
overheard, tired of being shut in th
e tiny, dark bedroom. Most of all, 
he longed to be rid of Griphook
. However, precisely how and when 
they were to part from the goblin
 without handing over Gryffindors 
sword remained a question to which Harry had no answer. It had 
been impossible to decide how they
 were going to do it, because the 
goblin rarely left Harry, Ron, an
d Hermione alone together for more 
than five minutes at a time: He 
could give my mother lessons, 
growled Ron, as the goblins long 
fingers kept appe
aring around the 
edges of doors. With Bills warnin
g in mind, Harry could not help 
suspecting that Griphook was on the watch for possible skulduggery. 
Hermione disapproved so heartily 
of the planned double-cross that 
Harry had given up attempting to 
pick her brains on how best to 
do it; Ron, on the rare occasions th
at they had been able to snatch 
a few Griphook-free moments, ha
d come up with nothing better 
than Well just have to wing it, mate. Harry slept badly that night. Lying awake in the early hours, 
he thought back to the way he had felt the night before they had 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-SIX  522  infiltrated the Ministry of Magic 
and remembered a determination, 
almost an excitement. Now he was 
experiencing jolts of anxiety, 
nagging doubts: He could not shake o
ff the fear that 
it was all going 
to go wrong. He kept telling hims
elf that their plan was good, that 
Griphook knew what they were faci
ng, that they were well-prepared 
for all the difficulties they were li
kely to encounter, 
yet still he felt 
uneasy. Once or twice he heard Ro
n stir and was su
re that he too 
was awake, but they were sharing 
the sitting room with Dean, so 
Harry did not speak. 
It was a relief when six oclock arri
ved and they could slip out of 
their sleeping bags, dress in the se
midarkness, then creep out into 
the garden, where they were to 
meet Hermione and Griphook. The 
dawn was chilly, but there was lit
tle wind now that it was May. 
Harry looked up at the st
ars still glimmering pa
lely in the dark sky 
and listened to the sea washing ba
ckward and forward against the 
cliff: He was going to miss the sound. 
Small green shoots were forcing 
their way up through the red 
earth of Dobbys grave now; in a 
years time the mound would be 
covered in flowers. The white stone that bore the elfs name had al-
ready acquired a weathered look. He
 realized now that they could 
hardly have laid Dobby to rest in
 a more beautiful place, but Harry 
ached with sadness to think of 
leaving him behind. Looking down 
on the grave, he wondered yet 
again how the elf had known where to come to rescue them. His fing
ers moved absentmindedly to the 
little pouch still strung around his neck, through which he could 
feel the jagged mirror fragment in 
which he had been sure he had 
seen Dumbledores eye. Then the 
sound of a door opening made 
him look around. 
Bellatrix Lestrange was striding across the lawn toward them, 
GRINGOTTS  523  accompanied by Griphook. As she walked, she was tucking the 
small, beaded bag into the inside 
pocket of another set of the old 
robes they had taken from Grimmauld Place. Though Harry knew 
perfectly well that it was really
 Hermione, he could not suppress 
a shiver of loathing. She was taller than he was, her long black 
hair rippling down her back, her heavily lidded eyes disdainful as 
they rested upon him; but then 
she spoke, and he heard Hermione 
through Bellatrixs low voice. She tasted 
disgusting, worse than Gurdyroots! Okay, Ron, come 
here so I can do you. . . . 
Right, but remember, I dont 
like the beard too long  Oh, for heavens sake, this is
nt about looking handsome  
Its not that, it gets in the way! 
But I liked my nose a bit shorter, 
try and do it the way 
you did last time. 
Hermione sighed and 
set to work, mutterin
g under her breath as she transformed various aspects of Rons appearance. He was 
to be given a completely fake iden
tity, and they were trusting to 
the malevolent aura cast by Bell
atrix to protect him. Meanwhile 
Harry and Griphook were to be co
ncealed under the Invisibility 
Cloak. 
There, said Hermione, h
ow does he look, Harry? 
It was just possible to discern 
Ron under his disguise, but only, 
Harry thought, because he knew 
him so well. Rons hair was now 
long and wavy; he had a thick brown beard and mustache, no freck-
les, a short, broad nose, and heavy eyebrows. 
Well, hes not my type, but he
ll do, said Harry. Shall we go, 
then? All three of them glanced back at
 Shell Cottage, lying dark and 
silent under the fading stars, then 
turned and began to walk toward 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-SIX  524  the point, just beyond the bounda
ry wall, where the Fidelius Charm 
stopped working and they would be 
able to Disapparate. Once past 
the gate, Griphook spoke. 
I should climb up now, Harry Potter, I think? 
Harry bent down and the goblin 
clambered onto his back, his 
hands linked in front of Harrys throat. He was not heavy, but Harry 
disliked the feeling of the goblin 
and the surprising strength with 
which he clung on. Hermione pulled 
the Invisibility Cloak out of 
the beaded bag and thre
w it over them both. 
Perfect, she said, bending down 
to check Harrys feet. I cant 
see a thing. Lets go. 
Harry turned on the spot, with Griphook on his shoulders, con-
centrating with all his might on 
the Leaky Cauldron, the inn that 
was the entrance to Diagon Alley. The goblin clung even tighter 
as they moved into the compressing darkness, and seconds later 

Harrys feet found pavement and he
 opened his eyes on Charing 
Cross Road. Muggles bustled past 
wearing the hangdog expressions 
of early morning, quite unconsciou
s of the little inns existence. The bar of the Leaky Cauldron 
was nearly deserted. Tom, the 
stooped and toothless landlord, was polishing glasses behind the 
bar counter; a couple of warlocks having a muttered conversation 
in the far corner glanced at He
rmione and drew back into the 
shadows. 
Madam Lestrange, murmured Tom, and as Hermione passed 
he inclined his head subserviently. 
Good morning, said Hermione, an
d as Harry crept past, still 
carrying Griphook piggyback unde
r the Cloak, he saw Tom look 
surprised. 
Too polite, Harry whispered in 
Hermiones ear as they passed 
GRINGOTTS  525  out of the inn into the tiny backyard
. You need to treat people like 
theyre scum! Okay, okay! Hermione drew out Bellatrixs wa
nd and tapped a brick in the 
nondescript wall in front of them. 
At once the bricks began to whirl 
and spin: A hole appeared in the 
middle of them, which grew wider 
and wider, finally forming an 
archway onto the narrow cobbled 
street that was 
Diagon Alley. It was quiet, barely time for th
e shops to open, and there were 
hardly any shoppers abroad. The 
crooked, cobbled street was much 
altered now from the bustling pl
ace Harry had visited before his 
first term at Hogwarts so many ye
ars before. More shops than ever 
were boarded up, though several new establishments dedicated to 
the Dark Arts had been created sinc
e his last visit. Harrys own face 
glared down at him from posters pl
astered over many windows, al-
ways captioned with the words 
undesirable number one
. A number of ragged people sat huddled in doorways. He heard 
them moaning to the few passersb
y, pleading for gold, insisting 
that they were really wizards. 
One man had a bloody bandage over 
his eye. 
As they set off along the street
, the beggars glimpsed Hermione. 
They seemed to melt away before
 her, drawing hoods over their 
faces and fleeing as fast as they 
could. Hermione looked after them 
curiously, until the 
man with the bloodied 
bandage came stagger-
ing right across her path. My children! he bellowed, pointing at her. His voice was 
cracked, high-pitched; he sounded 
distraught. Where are my chil-
dren? What has he done with them? You know, 
you know! I  I really  stammered Hermione. 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-SIX  526  The man lunged at her, reaching for her throat: Then, with a bang 
and a burst of red light he was th
rown backward onto the ground, 
unconscious. Ron stood there, his wa
nd still outstretched and a look 
of shock visible behind 
his beard. Faces appe
ared at the windows 
on either side of the street, while 
a little knot of prosperous-looking 
passersby gathered their robes about them and broke into gentle 
trots, keen to vacate the scene. 
Their entrance into Diagon Alley 
could hardly have been more 
conspicuous; for a moment Harry 
wondered whether it might not 
be better to leave now and try to 
think of a different plan. Before 
they could move or consult one an
other, however, they heard a cry 
from behind them. 
Why, Madam Lestrange! 
Harry whirled around and Griphook
 tightened his hold around 
Harrys neck: A tall, thin wizard with a crown of bushy gray hair 

and a long, sharp nose wa
s striding toward them. 
Its Travers, hissed the goblin in
to Harrys ear, but at that mo-
ment Harry could not think who Tr
avers was. Hermione had drawn 
herself up to her fullest height an
d said with as much contempt as 
she could muster: And what do you want? Travers stopped in his tr
acks, clearly affronted. Hes another Death Eater
! breathed Griphook, and Harry sidled 
sideways to repeat the information into Hermiones ear. 
I merely sought to greet you, 
said Travers coolly, but if my 
presence is not welcome . . . 
Harry recognized his voice now; Travers was one of the Death 
Eaters who had been summoned to Xenophiliuss house. 
 GRINGOTTS  527  No, no, not at all, Travers, sa
id Hermione quickly, trying to 
cover up her mistak
e. How are you? 
Well, I confess I am surprised to see you out and about, 
Bellatrix. Really? Why? asked Hermione. 
Well, Travers coughed, I 
heard that the inhabitants of Malfoy 
Manor were confined to the house, after the . . . ah . . . escape. Harry willed Hermione to keep 
her head. If this was true, and 
Bellatrix was not supposed to be out in public  
The Dark Lord forgives those 
who have served him most faith-
fully in the past, said Hermione 
in a magnificent imitation of Bel-
latrixs most contemptuous manner. 
Perhaps your credit is not as 
good with him as mine is, Travers. Though the Death Eater looked 
offended, he also seemed less 
suspicious. He glanced down at the man Ron had just Stunned. 
How did it offend you? It does not matter, it will not do so again, said Hermione 
coolly. 
Some of these wandless can be 
troublesome, said Travers. 
While they do nothing but beg I have no objection, but one of them 
actually asked me to plead her case at the Ministry last week. 
Im a witch, sir, Im a witch, let me prove it to you
!
 he said in a squeaky 
impersonation. As if I was going to give her my wand  but whose 

wand, said Travers curiously, are you using at the moment, Bel-
latrix? I heard that
 your own was  
I have my wand here, said 
Hermione coldly, holding up Bella-
trixs wand. I dont know what rumors you have been listening to, 
Travers, but you seem
 sadly misinformed. 
 CHAPTER  TWENTY-SIX  528  Travers seemed a little taken aback at that, and he turned instead 
to Ron. 
Who is your friend? I do not recognize him. 
This is Dragomir Despard, said Hermione; they had decided 
that a fictional foreigner was th
e safest cover for Ron to assume. 
He speaks very little English, but he
 is in sympathy with the Dark 
Lords aims. He has traveled here from Transylvania to see our new 

regime. 
Indeed? How do you do, Dragomir? Ow you? said Ron, 
holding out his hand. 
Travers extended two fingers and shook Rons hand as though 
frightened of dirtying himself. 
So what brings you and your 
 ah  sympathetic friend to 
Diagon Alley this early? asked Travers. 
I need to visit Gringotts, said Hermione. 

Alas, I also, said Travers. Gold, filthy gold! We cannot live 
without it, yet I confess I deplore the necessity of consorting with 
our long-fingered friends. Harry felt Griphooks clasped ha
nds tighten momentarily around 
his neck. 
Shall we? said Travers, gesturing Hermione forward. 
Hermione had no choice but to fall into step beside him and head 
along the crooked, cobbled street toward the place where the snowy-

white Gringotts stood towering over the other little shops. Ron 
sloped along beside them, and Harry and Griphook followed. 
A watchful Death Eater was the very last thing they needed, and 
the worst of it was, with Travers 
marching at what he believed to 
be Bellatrixs side, there was no
 means for Harry to communicate 
with Hermione or Ron. All too soon they arrived at the foot of the 
GRINGOTTS  529  marble steps leading up
 to the great bronze doors. As Griphook had 
already warned them, the liveried goblins who usually flanked the 

entrance had been replaced by two 
wizards, both of whom were 
clutching long thin golden rods. 
Ah, Probity Probes, sighed Trav
ers theatrically, so crude  but effective! And he set off up the 
steps, nodding left 
and right to the wiz-
ards, who raised the golden rods 
and passed them up and down his 
body. The Probes, Harry knew, dete
cted spells of concealment and 
hidden magical objects. Knowing th
at he had only seconds; Harry 
pointed Dracos wand at each of 
the guards in turn and murmured, 
Confundo twice. Unnoticed by Traver
s, who was looking through 
the bronze doors at the inner hall, ea
ch of the guards
 gave a little 
start as the spells hit them. 
Hermiones long black hair ri
ppled behind her as she climbed 
the steps. One moment, madam, said th
e guard, raising his Probe. 
But youve just done that! said Hermione in Bellatrixs com-
manding, arrogant voice. Travers 
looked around, eyebrows raised. 
The guard was confused. He stared
 down at the thin golden Probe 
and then at his companion, who said in a slightly dazed voice, 
Yeah, youve just ch
ecked them, Marius. 
Hermione swept forward, Ron by
 her side, Harry and Griphook 
trotting invisibly behind them. Ha
rry glanced back as they crossed 
the threshold: The wizards were both scratching their heads. 
Two goblins stood before the inne
r doors, which were made of 
silver and which carried the poem warning of dire retribution to 
potential thieves. Harry looked up 
at it, and all of a sudden a knife-
sharp memory came to him: standing on this very spot on the day 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-SIX  530  that he had turned eleven, the most
 wonderful birthday of his life, 
and Hagrid standing beside him saying, 
Like I said, yehd be mad 
ter try an rob it.
 Gringotts had seemed a pl
ace of wonder that day, 
the enchanted repository of a trove of gold he had never known he 
possessed, and never for an instant 
could he have dreamed that he 
would return to steal. . . . But within seconds they were standing 
in the vast marble hall of the bank. 
The long counter was manned by 
goblins sitting on high stools, 
serving the first customers of the 
day. Hermione, Ron, and Travers 
headed toward an old goblin who 
was examining a thick gold coin 
through an eyeglass. Hermione allowe
d Travers to step ahead of her 
on the pretext of explaining fe
atures of the hall to Ron. 
The goblin tossed the coin he was ho
lding aside, said to nobody in 
particular, Leprechaun, and then greeted Travers, who passed over 
a tiny golden key, which was ex
amined and given back to him. 
Hermione stepped forward. Madam Lestrange! said the go
blin, evidently startled. Dear 
me! How  how may I help you today? 
I wish to enter my vault, said Hermione. 
The old goblin seemed to recoil
 a little. Harry glanced around. 
Not only was Travers hanging back, watching, but several other 
goblins had looked up from their work to stare at Hermione. 
You have . . . identifica
tion? asked the goblin. 
Identification? I  I 
have never been aske
d for identification 
before! said Hermione. 
They know
! whispered Griphook in Harrys ear. 
They must have 
been warned there might be an impostor
! Your wand will do, madam, said
 the goblin. He held out a 
slightly trembling hand, and in a dreadful blast of realization Harry 
GRINGOTTS  531  knew that the goblins of Gringotts 
were aware that Bellatrixs wand 
had been stolen. Act now, act now,
 whispered Griphook in Harrys ear, 
the Im-perius Curse
! Harry raised the hawthorn wand
 beneath the cloak, pointed 
it at the old goblin, and whispered,
 for the first time in his life, 
Imperio! A curious sensation shot down Ha
rrys arm, a feeling of tingling 
warmth that seemed to flow from his mind, down the sinews and 
veins connecting him to the wand and the curse it had just cast. The 

goblin took Bellatrixs wand, examin
ed it closely, and then said, Ah, 
you have had a new wand made, Madam Lestrange! 
What? said Hermione. No, no, thats mine  
A new wand? said Travers, appr
oaching the counter again; still 
the goblins all around were watc
hing. But how could you have 
done, which wandmaker did you use? Harry acted without thinking: Pointi
ng his wand at Travers, he 
muttered, 
Imperio! once more. 
Oh yes, I see, said Travers, 
looking down at Bellatrixs wand, 
yes, very handsome. And is it wo
rking well? I always think wands 
require a little breaki
ng in, dont you? Hermione looked utterly bewildered, but to Harrys enormous 
relief she accepted th
e bizarre turn of even
ts without comment. The old goblin behind the counter clapped his hands and a 
younger goblin approached. 
I shall need the Clankers, he told the goblin, who dashed away 
and returned a moment later with 
a leather bag that seemed to be 
full of jangling metal, which he handed to his senior. Good, good! 

So, if you will follow me, Madam Le
strange, said the old goblin, 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-SIX  532  hopping down off his stool and vanish
ing from sight, I shall take 
you to your vault. 
He appeared around the end of 
the counter, jogging happily to-
ward them, the contents
 of the leather bag still jingling. Travers 
was now standing quite still with
 his mouth hanging wide open. 
Ron was drawing attention to t
his odd phenomenon 
by regarding 
Travers with confusion. 
Wait  Bogrod! 
Another goblin came scurrying around the counter. 
We have instructions, he said
 with a bow to Hermione. For-
give me, Madam, but there have 
been special orders regarding the 
vault of Lestrange. 
He whispered urgently in Bogrods
 ear, but the Imperiused goblin 
shook him off. I am aware of the 
instructions. Madam Lestrange wishes to 
visit her vault. . . . Very old family
 . . . old clients . . . This way, 
please . . . And, still clanking, he hurried
 toward one of the many doors 
leading off the hall. Harry looked back at Travers, who was still 
rooted to the spot looking abnorm
ally vacant, and made his deci-
sion: With a flick of his wand he made Travers come with them, 
walking meekly in their wake as
 they reached the door and passed 
into the rough stone passageway 
beyond, which was lit with flam-
ing torches. 
Were in trouble; they suspec
t, said Harry as the door slammed 
behind them and he pulled off th
e Invisibility Cloak. Griphook 
jumped down from his shoulders; neither Travers nor Bogrod 
showed the slightest surprise at
 the sudden appearance of Harry 
Potter in their midst. Theyre Imperiused, he added, in response 
GRINGOTTS  533  to Hermione and Rons confused qu
eries about Travers and Bogrod, 
who were both now standing there 
looking blank. I dont think I 
did it strongly enough, I dont know. . . . And another memory darted throug
h his mind, of the real Bel-
latrix Lestrange shrieking at him when he had first tried to use an 
Unforgivable Curse:
 You need to 
mean them, Potter! What do we do? asked Ron. Shall we get out now, while we 
can? 
If we can, said Hermione, look
ing back toward the door into 
the main hall, beyond which wh
o knew what was happening. 
Weve got this far, I say 
we go on, said Harry. 
Good! said Griphook. So, we ne
ed Bogrod to control the cart; 
I no longer have the authority. Bu
t there will not be room for the 
wizard. Harry pointed his wand at Travers. 

Imperio! The wizard turned and set off al
ong the dark track at a smart 
pace. What are you making him do? 
Hide, said Harry as he poin
ted his wand at Bogrod, who 
whistled to summon a little cart
 that came trundling along the 
tracks toward them out of the darkness. Harry was sure he could 
hear shouting behind them in the 
main hall as they all clambered 
into it, Bogrod in front with Gr
iphook, Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
crammed together in the back. With a jerk the cart moved off,
 gathering speed: They hurtled 
past Travers, who was wriggling in
to a crack in the wall, then the 
cart began twisting and turning th
rough the labyrinthine passages, 
sloping downward all the time. Ha
rry could not hear 
anything over 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-SIX  534  the rattling of the cart on the tracks: His hair flew behind him as 
they swerved between stalactites, fl
ying ever deeper into the earth, 
but he kept glancing back. They 
might as well have left enormous 
footprints behind them; the more
 he thought about it, the more 
foolish it seemed to have disguise
d Hermione as Bellatrix, to have 
brought along Bellatrixs wand, when the Death Eaters knew who 
had stolen it  
They were deeper than Harry had ever penetrated within Grin-
gotts; they took a hairpin bend at speed and saw ahead of them, with 
seconds to spare, a waterfall poun
ding over the track. Harry heard 
Griphook shout, No! but there 
was no braking: They zoomed 
through it. Water filled Harrys ey
es and mouth: He could not see 
or breathe: Then, with an awful lurc
h, the cart flipped over and they 
were all thrown out of it. Harry he
ard the cart smash into pieces 
against the passage wall, heard He
rmione shriek some
thing, and felt 
himself glide back toward the ground as though weightless, landing 
painlessly on the rocky passage floor. 
C-Cushioning Charm, Hermione 
spluttered, as Ron pulled her 
to her feet, but to Harrys horror he
 saw that she was no longer Bella-
trix; instead she stood there in ov
erlarge robes, sopping wet and com-
pletely herself; Ron was red-haired
 and beardless again. They were 
realizing it as they looked at ea
ch other, feeling their own faces. 
The Thiefs Downfall! said Griphook, clambering to his feet 
and looking back at the deluge on
to the tracks, which, Harry knew 
now, had been more than water. 
It washes away all enchantment, 
all magical concealment! They know
 there are impostors in Grin-
gotts, they have set off defenses against us! 
Harry saw Hermione checking that 
she still had the beaded bag, 
and hurriedly thrust his own hand under his jacket to make sure he 
GRINGOTTS  535  had not lost the Invisibility Cloa
k. Then he turned to see Bogrod 
shaking his head in bewilderment: 
The Thiefs Downfall seemed to 
have lifted the Imperius Curse. 
We need him, said Griphook, 
we cannot enter the vault with-
out a Gringotts goblin. And 
we need the Clankers! 
Imperio! Harry said again; his voice echoed through the stone 
passage as he felt again 
the sense of heady cont
rol that flowed from 
brain to wand. Bogrod submitted 
once more to his will, his be-
fuddled expression changing to o
ne of polite indifference, as Ron 
hurried to pick up the le
ather bag of metal tools. Harry, I think I can hear people coming! said Hermione, and 
she pointed Bellatrixs wand at
 the waterfall and cried, 
Protego! They saw the Shield Charm break th
e flow of enchanted water as it 
flew up the passageway. 
Good thinking, said Harry. Lead the way, Griphook! 

How are we going to get out ag
ain? Ron asked as they hurried 
on foot into the darkness after th
e goblin, Bogrod panting in their 
wake like an old dog. Lets worry about that when we
 have to, said Harry. He was 
trying to listen: He thought he could hear something clanking and 

moving around nearby. Griphook, how much farther? 
Not far, Harry Potter, not far . . . 
And they turned a corner and saw the thing for which Harry had 
been prepared, but which still br
ought all of them to a halt. 
A gigantic dragon was tethered to the ground in front of them, 
barring access to four or five of th
e deepest vaults in the place. The 
beasts scales had turn
ed pale and flaky duri
ng its long incarcera-
tion under the ground; its eyes we
re milkily pink; both rear legs 
bore heavy cuffs from which chai
ns led to enormous pegs driven 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-SIX  536  deep into the rocky floor. Its great 
spiked wings, folded close to its 
body, would have filled the chamber 
if it spread them, and when it 
turned its ugly head toward them, 
it roared with a noise that made 
the rock tremble, opened its mouth, 
and spat a jet of fire that sent 
them running back 
up the passageway. It is partially blind, panted 
Griphook, but even more savage 
for that. However, we have the me
ans to control it. It has learned 
what to expect when the Clankers come. Give them to me. 
Ron passed the bag to Griphook, 
and the goblin pulled out a 
number of small metal instrument
s that when shaken made a loud, 
ringing noise like miniature hamm
ers on anvils. Griphook handed 
them out: Bogrod accepted his meekly. 
You know what to do, Griphook
 told Harry, Ron, and Hermi-
one. It will expect pain when it he
ars the noise: It will retreat, and 
Bogrod must place his palm 
upon the door of the vault. 
They advanced around the corner
 again, shaking the Clankers, 
and the noise echoed off the rocky wa
lls, grossly magnified, so that 
the inside of Harrys skull seemed to vibrate with the din. The 
dragon let out another hoarse roar, then retreated. Harry could see 
it trembling, and as they drew nearer he saw the scars made by vi-

cious slashes across its face, and gu
essed that it had been taught to 
fear hot swords when it heard the sound of the Clankers. Make him press his hand to th
e door! Griphook urged Harry, 
who turned his wand again upon 
Bogrod. The old goblin obeyed, 
pressing his palm to the wood, and 
the door of the vault melted away 
to reveal a cavelike opening cra
mmed from floor to ceiling with 
golden coins and goblets, silver armo
r, the skins of strange creatures 
 some with long spines, others
 with drooping 
wings  potions 
in jeweled flasks, and a skull still wearing a crown. 
GRINGOTTS  537  Search, fast! said Harry as they all hurried inside the vault. 
He had described Hufflepuffs cup to Ron and Hermione, but if 
it was the other, unknown Horcrux that resided in this vault, he did 
not know what it looked like. He barely had time to glance around, 
however, before there was a muffl
ed clunk from behind them: The 
door had reappeared, sealing them in
side the vault, and they were 
plunged into total darkness. No matter, Bogrod will be able to 
release us! said Griphook as 
Ron gave a shout of surprise. Lig
ht your wands, cant you? And 
hurry, we have ve
ry little time! Lumos
! Harry shone his lit wand around th
e vault: Its beam fell upon 
glittering jewels; he saw the fake
 sword of Gryffindor lying on a 
high shelf amongst a jumble of 
chains. Ron and Hermione had lit 
their wands too, and were now ex
amining the piles of objects sur-
rounding them. 
Harry, could this be  ? Aargh! 
Hermione screamed in pain, an
d Harry turned his wand on her 
in time to see a jeweled goblet tumb
ling from her grip. But as it fell, 
it split, became a shower of goblet
s, so that a second later, with a 
great clatter, the floor was covered in identical cups rolling in every 
direction, the original imposs
ible to discer
n amongst them. 
It burned me! moaned Hermione, sucking her blistered fingers. 

They have added Gemino and Flagrante Curses! said Griphook. 
Everything you touch will burn an
d multiply, but the copies are 
worthless  and if you continue to
 handle the treasure, you will 
eventually be crushed to death by
 the weight of expanding gold! 
Okay, dont touch anything! said Harry desperately, but even as 
he said it, Ron accidentally nudged one of the fallen goblets with his 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-SIX  538  foot, and twenty more exploded into being while Ron hopped on the 
spot, part of his shoe burned away
 by contact with the hot metal. 
Stand still, dont move! said
 Hermione, clutching at Ron. 
Just look around! said Harry. 
Remember, the cups small and 
gold, its got a badger engraved on it, two handles  otherwise see 
if you can spot Ravenclaws sy
mbol anywhere, the eagle  
They directed their wands into 
every nook and crevice, turning 
cautiously on the spot. It was im
possible not to brush up against 
anything; Harry sent a great casc
ade of fake Galleons onto the 
ground where they joined the gobl
ets, and now there was scarcely 
room to place their feet, and the glowing gold blazed with heat, 
so that the vault felt like a furn
ace. Harrys wandlight passed over 
shields and goblin-made helmets set on shelves rising to the ceiling; 
higher and higher he raised the be
am, until suddenly it found an 
object that made his heart skip and his hand tremble. Its there, its up there
! Ron and Hermione pointed their wand
s at it too, so that the little 
golden cup sparkled in a three-way 
spotlight: the cup that had be-
longed to Helga Huffle
puff, which had passed into the possession of Hepzibah Smith, from whom it had been stolen by Tom Riddle. 
And how the hell are we going 
to get up there without touching 
anything? asked Ron. 
Accio Cup! cried Hermione, who had evidently forgotten in her 
desperation what Griphook had to
ld them during their planning 
sessions. 
No use, no use! snarled the goblin. 
Then what do we do? said Harry, 
glaring at the goblin. If you 
want the sword, Griphook, then youll have to help us more than  

wait! Can I touch stuff with the sw
ord? Hermione, give it here! GRINGOTTS  539  Hermione fumbled inside her robe
s, drew out the beaded bag, 
rummaged for a few seconds, th
en removed the shining sword. 
Harry seized it by its rubied hilt and touched the tip of the blade to 
a silver flagon nearby, which did not multiply. 
If I can just poke the sword th
rough a handle  but how am I 
going to get up there? 
The shelf on which the cup reposed was out of reach for any 
of them, even Ron, who was tallest. The heat from the enchanted 
treasure rose in waves, and swea
t ran down Harrys face and back 
as he struggled to think of a way up to the cup; and then he heard 

the dragon roar on the other side
 of the vault door, and the sound 
of clanking growing louder and louder. 
They were truly trapped now: 
There was no way out except 
through the door, and a horde of goblins seem
ed to be approach-
ing on the other side. 
Harry looked at Ron 
and Hermione and saw 
terror in their faces. 
Hermione, said Harry as the clan
king grew louder, Ive got to 
get up there, weve got to get rid of it  
She raised her wand, pointed it
 at Harry, and whispered, 
Levi-
corpus. Hoisted into the air by his ankl
e, Harry hit a suit of armor and 
replicas burst out of it like white-hot bodies, filling the cramped 
space. With screams of pain Ro
n, Hermione, and the two goblins 
were knocked aside into other object
s, which also began to replicate. 
Half buried in a rising tide of 
red-hot treasure, they struggled and 
yelled as Harry thrust the sword th
rough the handle of Hufflepuffs 
cup, hooking it onto the blade. 
Impervius! screeched Hermione in an 
attempt to protect herself, 
Ron, and the goblins from the burning metal. 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-SIX  540  Then the worst scream yet made
 Harry look down: Ron and Her-
mione were waist-deep in treasure
, struggling to keep Bogrod from 
slipping beneath the risi
ng tide, but Griphook 
had sunk out of sight 
and nothing but the tips
 of a few long finger
s were left in view. 
Harry seized Griphooks fingers 
and pulled. The blistered goblin 
emerged by degrees, howling. 
Liberacorpus! yelled Harry, and with 
a crash he and Griphook 
landed on the surface of the swel
ling treasure, and the sword flew 
out of Harrys hand. 
Get it! Harry yelled, fighting th
e pain of the hot metal on his 
skin, as Griphook clambered onto 
his shoulders again, determined 
to avoid the swelling mass of red-
hot objects. Wheres the sword? 
It had the cup on it! 
The clanking on the other side
 of the door was growing deafen-
ing  it was too late  
There! 
It was Griphook who 
had seen it and Griphook who lunged, and 
in that instant Harry knew that th
e goblin had never expected them 
to keep their word. One hand holdin
g tightly to a fistful of Harrys 
hair, to make sure he did not fall into the heaving sea of burning 

gold, Griphook seized 
the hilt of the sword 
and swung it high out 
of Harrys reach. 
The tiny golden cup, skewered by 
the handle on the swords blade, 
was flung into the air. The goblin
 still astride him, Harry dived and 
caught it, and although he could feel
 it scalding his flesh he did not 
relinquish it, even while countless
 Hufflepuff cups burst from his 
fist, raining down upon him as th
e entrance of the vault opened up 
again and he found himself sliding uncontrollably on an expanding  
 GRINGOTTS  541  avalanche of fiery gold and silver 
that bore him, Ron, and Hermione 
into the outer chamber. Hardly aware of the pain from 
the burns covering his body, and 
still borne along on the swell of replicating treasure, Harry shoved 
the cup into his pocket and reached up to retrieve the sword, but 
Griphook was gone. Sliding from 
Harrys shoulders the moment he 
could, he had sprinted for cover amongst the surrounding goblins, 

brandishing the sword and crying, Thieves! Thieves! Help! Thieves! 
He vanished into the midst of th
e advancing crowd, all of whom 
were holding daggers 
and who accepted him without question. 
Slipping on the hot metal, Harry 
struggled to his feet and knew 
that the only way out was through. 
Stupefy! he bellowed, and Ron and Hermione joined in: Jets 
of red light flew into the crowd of
 goblins, and so
me toppled over, 
but others advanced, and Harry saw 
several wizard guards running 
around the corner. 
The tethered dragon let out a roar, and a gush of flame flew over 
the goblins: The wizards fled, dou
bled-up, back the way they had 
come, and inspiration, or madnes
s, came to Harry. Pointing his 
wand at the thick cuffs chaining 
the beast to the floor, he yelled, 
Relashio
! The cuffs broke open with loud bangs. 
This way! Harry yelled, and stil
l shooting Stunning Spells at 
the advancing goblins, he spri
nted toward the blind dragon. 
Harry  Harry  what are you doing? cried Hermione. Get up, climb up
, come on  
The dragon had not realized that
 it was free: Harrys foot found 
the crook of its hind leg and he pulled himself up onto its back.  
 CHAPTER  TWENTY-SIX  542  The scales were hard as steel; it 
did not even seem to feel him. He 
stretched out an arm; Hermione 
hoisted herself up; Ron climbed 
on behind them, and a second late
r the dragon became aware that 
it was untethered. With a roar it reared: Harry dug in
 his knees, clutching as tightly 
as he could to the jagged scales
 as the wings opened, knocking the 
shrieking goblins aside like skittles, 
and it soared into the air. Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione, flat on its ba
ck, scraped against the ceiling as 
it dived toward the passage open
ing, while the pursuing goblins 
hurled daggers that gl
anced off its flanks. 
Well never get out, its too big! Hermione screamed, but the 
dragon opened its mouth and belc
hed flame again, blasting the 
tunnel, whose floors and ceiling 
cracked and crumbled. By sheer 
force the dragon clawed and fought its way through. Harrys eyes 
were shut tight agains
t the heat and dust: De
afened by the crash-
ing of rock and the dragons roars, he could only cling to its back, 
expecting to be shaken off at an
y moment; then he heard Hermione 
yelling, 
Defodio! She was helping the dragon enlarge the passageway, carving out 
the ceiling as it struggled upward 
toward the fresher air, away from 
the shrieking and clanking goblin
s: Harry and Ron copied her, 
blasting the ceiling apart with mo
re gouging spells. They passed the 
underground lake, and the great crawling, snarling beast seemed to 

sense freedom and space ahead of it, and behind them the passage 
was full of the dragons thrashing,
 spiked tail, of great lumps of 
rock, gigantic fractured stalactites,
 and the clanking
 of the goblins 
seemed to be growing more muffled,
 while ahead, the dragons fire 
kept their progress clear  

 GRINGOTTS  543  And then at last, by the combined force of their spells and the 
dragons brute strength, they had bl
asted their way out of the passage 
into the marble hallway. Goblins 
and wizards shrieked and ran for 
cover, and finally the dragon had ro
om to stretch its wings: Turning 
its horned head toward the cool 
outside air it could smell beyond 
the entrance, it took off, and wi
th Harry, Ron, and Hermione still 
clinging to its back, it forced it
s way through the metal doors, leav-
ing them buckled and hanging from
 their hinges, as it staggered 
into Diagon Alley and launched itself into the sky. 
C H A P T E R  T W E N T Y - S E V E N   544  THE FINAL 
HIDING PLACE 
 here was no means of steering; the dragon could not see where 
it was going, and Harry knew that 
if it turned sharply or rolled 
in midair they would find it imposs
ible to cling onto its broad back. 
Nevertheless, as they climbed higher and higher, London unfurling 
below them like a gray-and-gr
een map, Harrys overwhelming feeling 
was of gratitude for an escape that
 had seemed impossible. Crouching 
low over the beasts neck, he clung 
tight to the metallic scales, and 
the cool breeze was soot
hing on his burned and blistered skin, the 
dragons wings beating the air like th
e sails of a windmill. Behind him, 
whether from delight or fear he could not tell, Ron kept swearing at 

the top of his voice, and Herm
ione seemed to be sobbing. After five minutes or so, Harry lost some of his immediate dread 
that the dragon was going to throw them off, for it seemed intent 
on nothing but getting as far away from its underground prison 
as possible; but the question of how and when they were to dis-

mount remained rather frightenin
g. He had no idea how long 
T THE  FINAL  HIDING  PLACE  545  dragons could fly without landing, nor how this particular dragon, 
which could barely see, would locate a good place to put down. He 

glanced around constantly, imagining that he could feel his scar 
prickling. . . . How long would it be before 
Voldemort knew that they had 
broken into the Lestranges vault?
 How soon would the goblins of 
Gringotts notify Bellatrix? How 
quickly would they realize what 
had been taken? And then, when 
they discovered that the golden 
cup was missing? Voldemort would know, at last, that they were 
hunting Horcruxes. . . . 
The dragon seemed to crave cooler and fresher air: It climbed 
steadily until they were flying th
rough wisps of chilly cloud, and 
Harry could no longer make out th
e little colored dots which were 
cars pouring in and out of the capi
tal. On and on they flew, over 
countryside parceled out in patches of green and brown, over roads 

and rivers winding through the landscape like strips of matte and 
glossy ribbon. 
What do you reckon its looking 
for? Ron yelled as they flew 
farther and farther north. 
No idea, Harry bellowed back
. His hands were numb with 
cold but he did not dare attemp
t to shift his grip. He had been 
wondering for some time what they
 would do if they saw the coast 
sail beneath them, if the dragon 
headed for open sea; he was cold 
and numb, not to mention desperat
ely hungry and thirsty. When, 
he wondered, had the beast itself 
last eaten? Surely it would need 
sustenance before long? An
d what if, at that point, it realized it had 
three highly edible huma
ns sitting on its back? 
The sun slipped lower in the sky,
 which was turning indigo; and 
still the dragon flew, cities and towns gliding out of sight beneath 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-SEVEN  546  them, its enormous shadow sliding 
over the earth like a great dark 
cloud. Every part of Harry ached wi
th the effort of holding on to 
the dragons back. 
Is it my imagination, shouted 
Ron after a considerable stretch 
of silence, or are we losing height? 
Harry looked down and saw deep
 green mountains and lakes, 
coppery in the sunset. The landscap
e seemed to grow larger and 
more detailed as he squinted over
 the side of the dragon, and he 
wondered whether it had divined th
e presence of fresh water by the 
flashes of reflected sunlight. 
Lower and lower the dragon flew, in great spiraling circles, hon-
ing in, it seemed, upon on
e of the smaller lakes. 
I say we jump when it gets 
low enough! Harry called back to 
the others. Straight into the water 
before it realizes were here! 
They agreed, Hermione a little fain
tly, and now Harry could see the 
dragons wide yellow underbelly rippling in the surface of the water. 
NOW! 
He slithered over the side of 
the dragon and plummeted feetfirst 
toward the surface of the lake; the drop was greater than he had 
estimated and he hit the water hard, plunging like a stone into a 

freezing, green, reed-filled world. 
He kicked toward the surface and 
emerged, panting, to see enormous ripples emanating in circles from 
the places where Ron and Hermio
ne had fallen. The dragon did 
not seem to have noticed anything
: It was already fifty feet away, 
swooping low over the lake to scoo
p up water in its scarred snout. 
As Ron and Hermione emerged, splu
ttering and gasping, from the 
depths of the lake, the dragon fl
ew on, its wings beating hard, and 
landed at last on a distant bank. 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione struck out for the opposite shore. The 
THE  FINAL  HIDING  PLACE  547  lake did not seem to be deep: Soon 
it was more a question of fighting 
their way through reeds and mud than swimming, and at last they 
flopped, sodden, panting, and exhausted, onto slippery grass. 
Hermione collapsed, coughing an
d shuddering. Though Harry 
could have happily lain down and 
slept, he staggered to his feet, 
drew out his wand, and started cast
ing the usual protective spells 
around them. 
When he had finished, he joined the others. It was the first time 
that he had seen them properly sinc
e escaping from the vault. Both 
had angry red burns all over their faces and arms, and their cloth-
ing was singed away in places. Th
ey were wincing as they dabbed 
essence of dittany onto their many injuries. Hermione handed Harry 
the bottle, then pulled out three 
bottles of pumpkin juice she had 
brought from Shell Cottage and cl
ean, dry robes for all of them. 
They changed and then gulped down the juice. 
Well, on the upside, said Ro
n finally, who was sitting watch-
ing the skin on his hands regrow, we got the Horcrux. On the 
downside   no sword, said Harry through gritted teeth, as he dripped 
dittany through the singed hole in
 his jeans onto 
the angry burn beneath. No sword, repeated Ron. That double-crossing little scab . . . Harry pulled the Horcrux from the 
pocket of the wet jacket he 
had just taken off and set it down 
on the grass in front of them. 
Glinting in the sun, it drew their 
eyes as they swigged their bottles 
of juice. At least we cant wear it this time, thatd look a bit weird hang-
ing round our necks, said Ron, wi
ping his mouth on the back of 
his hand. CHAPTER  TWENTY-SEVEN  548  Hermione looked across the lake
 to the far bank, where the 
dragon was still drinking. 
Whatll happen to it, do you thin
k? she asked. Will it be all 
right? You sound like Hagrid, said Ron. Its a dragon, Hermione, it 
can look after itself. Its us
 we need to 
worry about. 
What do you mean? 

Well, I dont know how to break this to you, said Ron, but I 
think they might have noticed we broke into Gringotts. 
All three of them started to laug
h, and once started, it was dif-
ficult to stop. Harrys ribs ached, 
he felt lightheaded with hunger, 
but he lay back on the grass bene
ath the reddening sky and laughed 
until his throat was raw. 
What are we going to do, though
? said Hermione finally, hic-
cuping herself back to serious
ness. Hell know, wont he? You-
Know-Who will know we kn
ow about his Horcruxes! Maybe theyll be too scared to 
tell him? said Ron hopefully. 
Maybe theyll 
cover up  
The sky, the smell of lake water,
 the sound of Rons voice were 
extinguished: Pain cleaved Harrys he
ad like a sword stroke. He was 
standing in a dimly lit room, and a 
semicircle of wizards faced him, 
and on the floor at his feet 
knelt a small, quaking figure. 
What did you say to me? His voice was high and cold, but fury 
and fear burned inside him. Th
e one thing he had dreaded  but 
it could not be true, he
 could not see how . . . 
The goblin was trembling, unable to meet the red eyes high above 
his. Say it again! murmured Voldemort. 
Say it again!  THE  FINAL  HIDING  PLACE  549  M-my Lord, stammered the goblin, its black eyes wide with ter-
ror, m-my Lord . . . we t-tried t-to st-stop them. . . . Im-impostors, 

my Lord . . . broke  broke in
to the  into the Lestranges 
v-vault. . . . Impostors? What impostors? I thought Gringotts had ways of 
revealing impostors? Who were they? 
It was . . . it was . . . the P-Potter b-boy and t-two accom-
plices. . . . And they took
? he said, his voice rising, a terrible fear gripping 
him. Tell me! 
What did they take
? A . . . a s-small golden 
c-cup, m-my Lord . . . 
The scream of rage, of denial left
 him as if it were a strangers: 
He was crazed, frenzied, it could not be true, it was impossible, no-
body had ever known: How was it 
possible that the boy could have 
discovered his secret? 
The Elder Wand slashed through 
the air and green light erupted 
through the room; the kneeling goblin rolled over, dead; the watching 
wizards scattered before him, terrified: Bellatri
x and Lucius Malfoy 
threw others behind them in thei
r race for the door, and again and 
again his wand fell, and those who we
re left were slain, all of them, 
for bringing him this news, for hearing about the golden cup  
Alone amongst the dead he stormed up and down, and they 
passed before him in vision: his trea
sures, his safeguards, his anchors 
to immortality  the diary was de
stroyed and the cup was stolen: 
What if, 
what if,
 the boy knew about the others? Could he know, 
had he already acted, had he traced more of them? Was Dumbledore 
at the root of this? Dumbledore,
 who had always suspected him; 
Dumbledore, dead on his orders; Dumbledore, whose wand was  

 CHAPTER  TWENTY-SEVEN  550  his now, yet who reached out from
 the ignominy of death through 
the boy, 
the boy  
But surely if the boy had destroye
d any of his Horcruxes, he, Lord 
Voldemort, would have known, would have felt it? He, the greatest 
wizard of them all; he, the most 
powerful; he, the killer of Dumble-
dore and of how many other worthless, nameless men: How could 
Lord Voldemort not have known, 
if he, himself, most important 
and precious, had been 
attacked, mutilated? True, he had not felt it when th
e diary had been destroyed, but 
he had thought that was because he had no body to feel, being less 

than ghost. . . . No, surely, the re
st were safe. . 
. . The other Hor-
cruxes must be intact. . . . But he must know, he must be 
sure. . . . He paced the room, 
kicking aside the goblins corpse 
as he passed, and the pictures 
blurred and burned in his boiling 
brain: the lake, the shack, and 
Hogwarts  
A modicum of calm cooled his 
rage now: How could the boy 
know that he had hidden the ring 
in the Gaunt shack? No one had 
ever known him to be related to
 the Gaunts, he had hidden the 
connection, the killings had never 
been traced to him: The ring, 
surely, was safe. And how could the boy, or anybody
 else, know about the cave or 
penetrate its protection? The idea 
of the locket being stolen was 
absurd. . . . As for the school: He alone k
new where in Hogwarts he had 
stowed the Horcrux, because he
 alone had plumbed the deepest 
secrets of that place. . . . And there was still Nagini, who must remain close now, no longer 
sent to do his bidding, under his protection. . . . 
THE  FINAL  HIDING  PLACE  551  But to be sure, to be utterly sure, he must return to each of his 
hiding places, he must redouble prot
ection around each of his Hor-
cruxes. . . . A job, like the quest 
for the Elder Wand, that he must 
undertake alone . . . 
Which should he visit first, which was in most danger? An old 
unease flickered inside him. Dumbledore had known his middle 
name. . . . Dumbledore might have made the connection with the 
Gaunts. . . . Their abandoned home was, perhaps, the least secure of 
his hiding places, it was there th
at he would go first. . . . The lake, surely impossible . . . though was there a 
slight possibil-
ity that Dumbledore might have kn
own some of his past misdeeds, 
through the orphanage. And Hogwarts . . . but he knew that his Horcrux there was safe; 
it would be impossible for Potter 
to enter Hogsmeade without detec-
tion, let alone the school. Nevertheless, it would be prudent to alert 

Snape to the fact that 
the boy might try to reenter the castle. . . . To 
tell Snape why the boy might return 
would be foolish, of course; it 
had been a grave mistake to trust Be
llatrix and Malfoy: Didnt their 
stupidity and carelessness prove how 
unwise it was ever to trust? 
He would visit the Gaunt shack firs
t, then, and take Nagini with 
him: He would not be parted from the snake anymore . . . and he 
strode from the room, through the 
hall, and out into the dark gar-
den where the fountain played; he 
called the snake in Parseltongue 
and it slithered out to join 
him like a long shadow. . . . Harrys eyes flew open as he wr
enched himself back to the pres-
ent: He was lying on the bank of the lake in the setting sun, and 
Ron and Hermione were looking dow
n at him. Judging by their 
worried looks, and by the continued pounding of his scar, his sud-

den excursion into Voldemorts mi
nd had not passed unnoticed. He 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-SEVEN  552  struggled up, shivering, vaguely surp
rised that he was still wet to his 
skin, and saw the cup lying innocently in the grass before him, and 
the lake, deep blue shot with
 gold in the failing sun. 
He knows. His own voice sounded strange and low after Vol-
demorts high screams. He knows, and hes going to check where 
the others are, and the last one, 
he was already on his feet, is at 
Hogwarts. I knew it. I 
knew it. 
What? 
Ron was gaping at him; Hermio
ne sat up, looking worried. 
But what did you see? How do you know? I saw him find out about the cup, I  I was in his head, hes  
Harry remembered the killings  he
s seriously angry, and scared 
too, he cant understand how we knew, and now hes going to check 
the others are safe, the ring first.
 He thinks the Hogwarts one is 
safest, because Snapes there, becaus
e itll be so hard not to be seen 
getting in, I think hell check that
 one last, but he could still be 
there within hours  Did you see where in Hogwarts 
it is? asked Ron, now scram-
bling to his feet too. 
No, he was concentrating on warning Snape, he didnt think 
about exactly wh
ere it is  
Wait, wait
! cried Hermione as Ron caught up the Horcrux and 
Harry pulled out the Invisibility
 Cloak again. We cant just 
go, we 
havent got a plan, we need to  
We need to get going, said Harry firmly. He had been hop-
ing to sleep, looking forward to ge
tting into the new tent, but that 
was impossible now. Can you imag
ine what hes going to do once 
he realizes the ring and the locket
 are gone? What if he moves the 
Hogwarts Horcrux, decides it isnt safe enough? 
THE  FINAL  HIDING  PLACE  553  But how are we going to get in? 
Well go to Hogsmeade, said Ha
rry, and try to work something 
out once we see what the protecti
on around the schools like. Get 
under the Cloak, Hermione, I want 
to stick together this time. But we dont really fit  
Itll be dark, no ones go
ing to notice our feet. 
The flapping of enormous wings echoed across the black water: 
The dragon had drunk its fill and ri
sen into the air. They paused in 
their preparations to watch it cl
imb higher and higher, now black 
against the rapidly darkening sky, 
until it vanished over a nearby 
mountain. Then Hermione walked fo
rward and took her place be-
tween the other two. Harry pulled 
the Cloak down as far as it 
would go, and together they turned on the spot into the crushing 
darkness. C H A P T E R  T W E N T Y - E I G H T   554  THE MISSING MIRROR 
   arrys feet touched road. He 
saw the achingly familiar 
Hogsmeade High Street: dark
 shop fronts, and the out-
line of black mountains beyond th
e village, and the curve in the 
road ahead that led off toward Ho
gwarts, and light spilling from 
the windows of the Three Broomsticks, and with a lurch of the heart 
he remembered, with piercing ac
curacy, how he had landed here 
nearly a year before, supporting a desperately weak Dumbledore; 
all this in a second, upon landin
g  and then, even as he relaxed 
his grip upon Rons and Hermiones arms, it happened. 
The air was rent by a scream that
 sounded like Voldemorts when 
he had realized the cup had been st
olen: It tore at every nerve in 
Harrys body, and he knew immediat
ely that their appearance had 
caused it. Even as he looked at th
e other two beneath the Cloak, the 
door of the Three Broomsticks bu
rst open and a dozen cloaked and hooded Death Eaters dashed into the street, their wands aloft. Harry seized Rons wrist as he raised his wand; there were too 
H THE  MISSING MIRROR  555  many of them to Stun: Even attemp
ting it would give away their 
position. One of the Death Eaters
 waved his wand and the scream 
stopped, still echoing arou
nd the distant mountains. Accio Cloak
! roared one of the Death Eaters. 
Harry seized its folds, but it made no attempt to escape: The 
Summoning Charm had not worked on it. 
Not under your wrapper, then, Potter? yelled the Death Eater 
who had tried the charm, and then to his fellows, Spread out. Hes 
here. 
Six of the Death Eaters ran to
ward them: Harry, Ron, and Her-
mione backed as quickly as possi
ble down the nearest side street, 
and the Death Eaters missed them by inches. They waited in the 
darkness, listening to the footst
eps running up 
and down, beams of light flying along the street 
from the Death Eaters searching 
wands. Lets just leave! Hermione whispered. Disapparate now! 
Great idea, said Ron, but before Harry could reply a Death 
Eater shouted, We know youre here, Potter, an
d theres no getting away! Well 
find you! 
They were ready for us, whis
pered Harry. They set up that 
spell to tell them wed come. I reckon theyve done something to 
keep us here, trap us  
What about dementors? called 
another Death Eater. Let em 
have free rein, theyd 
find him quick enough! 
The Dark Lord wants Potter de
ad by no hand but his  
 an dementors wont kill him!
 The Dark Lord
 wants Potters 
life, not his soul. Hell be easier to
 kill if hes been Kissed first! 
There were noises of agreement.
 Dread filled Harry: To repel 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-EIGHT  556  dementors they would have to 
produce Patronuses, which would 
give them away immediately. 
Were going to have to try 
to Disapparate, Harry! Hermione 
whispered. Even as she said it, he felt the un
natural cold begin to steal over 
the street. Light was sucked from the environment right up to the 
stars, which vanished. In the pitc
h-blackness, he felt Hermione take 
hold of his arm an
d together, they turned on the spot. 
The air through which they neede
d to move seemed to have 
become solid: They could not Di
sapparate; the Death Eaters had 
cast their charms well. The cold wa
s biting deeper and deeper into 
Harrys flesh. He, Ron, and Hermione retreated down the side street, 
groping their way along the wall, tr
ying not to make a sound. Then, 
around the corner, gliding noiselessl
y, came dementors, ten or more 
of them, visible because they were
 of a denser darkness than their 
surroundings, with their black cloaks and their scabbed and rot-
ting hands. Could they sense fear in the vicinity? Harry was sure 
of it: They seemed to be coming
 more quickly now, taking those 
dragging, rattling breaths he dete
sted, tasting despair on the air, 
closing in  
He raised his wand: He could not, would not, suffer the Demen-
tors Kiss, whatever happened afte
rward. It was of Ron and Hermi-
one that he thought as he whispered, Expecto Patronum
! The silver stag burst from his wand and charged: The dementors 
scattered and there was a triumphant yell from somewhere out of 
sight. Its him, down there, down there, I saw his Patronus, it was a 
stag! The dementors had retreated, the stars were popping out again, 
THE  MISSING MIRROR  557  and the footsteps of the Death Eaters were becoming louder; but be-
fore Harry in his panic could decide what to do, there was a grinding 

of bolts nearby, a door opened on th
e left-hand side 
of the narrow 
street, and a rough voice said
, Potter, in here, quick! 
He obeyed without hesitation: The three of them hurtled through 
the open doorway. Upstairs, keep the Cloak on, keep
 quiet! muttered a tall figure, 
passing them on his way into th
e street and slamming the door 
behind him. Harry had had no idea where they were, but now he saw, by the 
stuttering light of a 
single candle, the grubby, sawdust-strewn bar 
of the Hogs Head Inn. They ra
n behind the counter and through 
a second doorway, which led to a ri
ckety wooden staircase that they 
climbed as fast as they could. The 
stairs opened onto a sitting room 
with a threadbare carpet and a small fireplace, above which hung a 

single large oil painting of a blon
de girl who gazed out at the room 
with a kind of vacant sweetness. Shouts reached them from the street below. Still wearing the 
Invisibility Cloak, they crept toward the grimy window and looked 
down. Their savior, whom Harry 
now recognized as the Hogs 
Heads barman, was the only person not wearing a hood. 
So what? he was bellowing into
 one of the hooded faces. So 
what? You send dementors down my
 street, Ill send a Patronus 
back at em! Im not having em near me, Ive told you that, Im not 
having it! That wasnt your Patronus! said a Death Eater. That was a 
stag, it was Potters! 
Stag! roared the barman, and he
 pulled out a wand. Stag! You 
idiot  
Expecto Patronum
! CHAPTER  TWENTY-EIGHT  558  Something huge and horned erupted from the wand: Head 
down, it charged toward the High Street and out of sight. 
Thats not what I saw  said 
the Death Eater, though with 
less certainty. Curfews been broken, you heard the noise, one of his com-
panions told the barman. Someone 
was out in the street against 
regulations  
If I want to put my cat out, 
I will, and be damned to your 
curfew! 
You set off the Caterwauling Charm? 
What if I did? Going to cart me off to Azkaban? Kill me for 
sticking my nose out my own front door? Do it, then, if you want 
to! But I hope for your sakes you havent pressed your little Dark 
Marks and summoned him. Hes not go
ing to like being called here 
for me and my old cat, is he, now? 
Dont you worry about us, said
 one of the Death Eaters, worry 
about yourself, breaking curfew! 
And where will you lot traffick potions and poisons when my 
pubs closed down? Whatll happen 
to your little sidelines then? 
Are you threatening  ? 

I keep my mouth shut, its 
why you come here, isnt it? 
I still say I saw a stag Patronus
! shouted the first Death Eater. 
Stag? roared the barman. Its a 
goat,
 idiot! 
All right, we made a mistake, 
said the second Death Eater. 
Break curfew again and we wont be so lenient! 
The Death Eaters strode back 
toward the High Street. Hermi-
one moaned with relief, wove out from under the Cloak, and sat 
down on a wobble-legged chair. Ha
rry drew the curtains tight shut, 
then pulled the Cloak off himself 
and Ron. They could hear the 
THE  MISSING MIRROR  559  barman down below, rebolting the 
door of the bar, then climbing 
the stairs. Harrys attention was 
caught by something 
on the mantelpiece: 
a small, rectangular mi
rror propped on top of it, right beneath the 
portrait of the girl. 
The barman entered the room. 
You bloody fools, he said gruffly, looking from one to the other 
of them. What were you 
thinking, coming here? 
Thank you, said Harry. We ca
nt thank you enough. You saved 
our lives. The barman grunted. Harry approached him, looking up into the 
face, trying to see past the long, stringy, wire-gray hair and beard. 
He wore spectacles. Behind the dirty lenses, the eyes were a pierc-
ing, brilliant blue. Its your eye Ive been 
seeing in the mirror. 
There was silence in the room. 
Harry and the barman looked at 
each other. 
You sent Dobby. 
The barman nodded and looked around for the elf. 
Thought hed be with you.
 Whereve you left him? 
Hes dead, said Harry. Be
llatrix Lestrange killed him. The barmans face was impassive
. After a few moments he said, 
Im sorry to hear it. I liked that elf. 
He turned away, lighting lamps with prods of his wand, not look-
ing at any of them. 
Youre Aberforth, said 
Harry to the mans back. 
He neither confirmed nor denied it, but bent to light the fire. 
How did you get this? Harry aske
d, walking across to Siriuss 
mirror, the twin of the one he ha
d broken nearly two years before. 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-EIGHT  560  Bought it from Dung bout a year
 ago, said Aberforth. Albus 
told me what it was. Been tryi
ng to keep an eye out for you. 
Ron gasped. 
The silver doe! he said ex
citedly. Was that you too? 
What are you talking about? said Aberforth. 
Someone sent a doe Patronus to us! 
Brains like that, you could be a Death Eater, son. Havent I just 
proved my Patronus is a goat? 
Oh, said Ron. Yeah . . . well, Im hungry! he added defensively as his stomach gave an enormous rumble. 
I got food, said Aberforth, and 
he sloped out of the room, re-
appearing moments later with a larg
e loaf of bread, some cheese, 
and a pewter jug of mead, which he
 set upon a small table in front 
of the fire. Ravenous, they ate an
d drank, and for a while there was 
silence but for the crackle of the fi
re, the clink of goblets, and the 
sound of chewing. 
Right then, said Aberforth wh
en they had eaten their fill, and 
Harry and Ron sat slumped dozily 
in their chairs. We need to 
think of the best way to get you out of here. Cant be done by night, 
you heard what happens if anyo
ne moves outdoors during dark-
ness: Caterwauling Charms set off,
 theyll be onto you like bow-
truckles on doxy eggs. I don
t reckon Ill be able to pass off a stag 
as a goat a second time. Wait fo
r daybreak when curfew lifts, then 
you can put your Cloak back on an
d set out on foot. Get right out 
of Hogsmeade, up into the mountain
s, and youll be able to Disap-
parate there. Might see Hagrid. Hes
 been hiding in a cave up there 
with Grawp ever since they tried to arrest him. 
Were not leaving, said Harry. We need to get into Hogwarts. 

Dont be stupid, boy, said Aberforth. 
THE  MISSING MIRROR  561  Weve got to, said Harry. 
What youve got to do, said Ab
erforth, leaning forward, is to 
get as far from he
re as you can. 
You dont understand. There isn
t much time. Weve got to get 
into the castle. Dumbledore  I mean, your brother  wanted 
us  
The firelight made the grimy lenses of Aberforths glasses momen-
tarily opaque, a bright flat whit
e, and Harry remembered the blind 
eyes of the giant spider, Aragog. 
My brother Albus wanted a lot of
 things, said Aberforth, and 
people had a habit of getting hu
rt while he was carrying out his 
grand plans. You get away from t
his school, Potter, and out of the 
country if you can. Forget my brot
her and his clever schemes. Hes 
gone where none of this can hurt him, and you dont owe him 
anything. 
You dont understand, said Harry again. 
Oh, dont I? said Aberforth quietly. You dont think I under-
stood my own brother? Think you knew Albus better than I did? I didnt mean that, said Har
ry, whose brain felt sluggish with 
exhaustion and from the surfeit of food and wine. Its . . . he left 

me a job. 
Did he now? said Aberforth. N
ice job, I hope? Pleasant? Easy? 
Sort of thing youd expect an unqu
alified wizard kid to be able to 
do without overstretching themselves? 
Ron gave a rather grim laugh. 
Hermione was looking strained. I-its not easy, no, said Ha
rry. But Ive got to  
Got to? Why 
got to? Hes dead, isnt he? said Aberforth 
roughly. Let it go, boy, before
 you follow him! Save yourself! 
I cant. 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-EIGHT  562  Why not? 
I  Harry felt overwhelmed; he 
could not explain, so he took 
the offensive instead. But youre fighting too, youre in the Order 
of the Phoenix  I was, said Aberforth. The Or
der of the Phoenix is finished. 
You-Know-Whos won, its over, and anyone whos pretending dif-
ferents kidding themselves. Itll never be safe for you here, Potter, 

he wants you too badly. So go abro
ad, go into hiding, save yourself. 
Best take these two with you. He
 jerked a thumb at Ron and Her-
mione. Theyll be in danger long
 as they live now everyone knows 
theyve been working with you. 
I cant leave, said Ha
rry. Ive got a job  
Give it to someone else! 
I cant. Its got to be me, Dumbledore explained it all  
Oh, did he now? And did he te
ll you everything, was he honest 
with you? 
Harry wanted with all his heart 
to say Yes, but somehow the 
simple word would not rise to his lips. Aberforth seemed to know 
what he was thinking. I knew my brother, Potter. He learned secrecy at our mothers 
knee. Secrets and lies, thats how we grew up, and Albus . . . he was 
a natural. 
The old mans eyes traveled to th
e painting of the girl over the 
mantelpiece. It was, now Harry l
ooked around properly, the only 
picture in the room. There was no
 photograph of Albus Dumble-
dore, nor of anyone else. Mr. Dumbledore? said Hermione 
rather timidly. Is that your 
sister? Ariana? 

 THE  MISSING MIRROR  563  Yes, said Aberforth tersely. B
een reading Rita Skeeter, have 
you, missy? 
Even by the rosy light of the fire
 it was clear that Hermione had 
turned red. 
Elphias Doge mentioned her to us
, said Harry, trying to spare 
Hermione. 
That old berk, muttered Aberfo
rth, taking another swig of 
mead. Thought the sun shone out 
of my brothers 
every orifice, 
he did. Well, so did plenty of pe
ople, you three included, by the 
looks of it. 
Harry kept quiet. He did not want to express the doubts and 
uncertainties about Dumbledore that had riddled him for months 
now. He had made his choice whil
e he dug Dobbys grave, he had 
decided to continue along the winding, dangerous path indicated 
for him by Albus Dumbledore, to a
ccept that he had not been told 
everything that he wanted to know, but simply to trust. He had no 
desire to doubt again; he did not 
want to hear an
ything that would 
deflect him from his purpose. He
 met Aberforths gaze, which was 
so strikingly like his brothers: Th
e bright blue eyes gave the same 
impression that they were X-raying
 the object of their scrutiny, and 
Harry thought that Aberforth knew 
what he was thinking and de-
spised him for it. 
Professor Dumbledore cared about Harry, very much, said Her-
mione in a low voice. 
Did he now? said Aberforth. 
Funny thing, how many of the 
people my brother cared about very
 much ended up in a worse state 
than if hed left em well alone. 
What do you mean? asked Hermione breathlessly. 
 CHAPTER  TWENTY-EIGHT  564  Never you mind, said Aberforth. 
But thats a really serious thing to say! said Hermione. Are 
you  are you talking 
about your sister? 
Aberforth glared at her: His lips 
moved as if he were chewing the 
words he was holding back. Then he burst into speech. 
When my sister was six years old,
 she was attacked, set upon, by 
three Muggle boys. Theyd seen he
r doing magic, spying through 
the back garden hedge: She was a kid, she couldnt control it, no 
witch or wizard can at that age.
 What they saw scared them, I 
expect. They forced their way through the hedge, and when she 

couldnt show them the trick, they
 got a bit carried away trying to 
stop the little freak doing it. 
Hermiones eyes were huge in th
e firelight; Ron looked slightly 
sick. Aberforth stood up, tall as Al
bus, and suddenly terrible in his 
anger and the intensity of his pain. 
It destroyed her, what they did: She was never right again. She 
wouldnt use magic, but she couldnt
 get rid of it; it turned inward 
and drove her mad, it exploded out 
of her when she couldnt control 
it, and at times she was strange an
d dangerous. But mostly she was 
sweet and scared and harmless. 
And my father went after the ba
stards that did it, said Aber-
forth, and attacked them. And they locked him up in Azkaban 
for it. He never said why hed done it, because if the Ministry had 

known what Ariana had become, shed have been locked up in 
St. Mungos for good. Theyd have 
seen her as a serious threat to 
the International Statute of Secrecy,
 unbalanced like she was, with 
magic exploding out of her at mom
ents when she couldnt keep it 
in any longer. 
We had to keep her safe and quie
t. We moved house, put it about 
THE  MISSING MIRROR  565  she was ill, and my mother looked after her, and tried to keep her 
calm and happy. 
I was her favorite, he said, and as
 he said it, a grubby schoolboy 
seemed to look out through Aberfo
rths wrinkles and tangled beard. 
Not Albus, he was always up in his bedroom when he was home, 
reading his books and counting his prizes, keeping up with his 
correspondence with the most nota
ble magical names of the day, 
Aberforth sneered. 
He didnt want to be bothered with her. She 
liked me best. I could get her to ea
t when she wouldnt
 do it for my 
mother, I could get her to calm do
wn when she was in one of her 
rages, and when she was quiet, she used to help me feed the goats. 
Then, when she was fourteen . . . See, I wasnt there, said Ab-
erforth. If Id been there, I coul
d have calmed her down. She had 
one of her rages, and my mother wasnt as young as she was, and . . . 
it was an accident. Ariana couldn
t control it. But my mother was 
killed. Harry felt a horrible mi
xture of pity and re
pulsion; he did not 
want to hear any more, but Aber
forth kept talking, and Harry won-
dered how long it had been since he
 had spoken about this; whether, 
in fact, he had ever spoken about it. 
So that put paid to Albuss trip
 round the world with little Doge. 
The pair of em came home for my
 mothers funeral and then Doge 
went off on his own, and Albus se
ttled down as head of the fam-
ily. Ha! 
Aberforth spat into the fire. 
Id have looked after her, I told 
him so, I didnt care about school, 
Id have stayed home and done it. 
He told me I had to finish my 
education and hed
 take over from my mother. Bit of a comedown 
for Mr. Brilliant, theres no prizes for looking after your half-mad 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-EIGHT  566  sister, stopping her bl
owing up the house every other day. But he 
did all right for a few weeks . . . till he came. And now a positively dangerous look crept over Aberforths face. 
Grindelwald. And at la
st, my brother had an 
equal to talk to, 
someone just as bright and talented as 
he was. And looking after 
Ariana took a backseat then, while 
they were hatching all their plans 
for a new Wizarding order, and looking for 
Hallows, and whatever 
else it was they were so interested
 in. Grand plans for the benefit of 
all Wizardkind, and if one young gi
rl got neglected, what did that 
matter, when Albus was working for 
the greater good
? But after a few weeks of it, Id 
had enough, I had. It was nearly 
time for me to go back to Hogwar
ts, so I told em, both of em, 
face-to-face, like I am to you, 
now, and Aberforth looked down at 
Harry, and it took little
 imagination to see hi
m as a teenager, wiry 
and angry, confronting his elder br
other. I told him, youd better 
give it up now. You cant move her,
 shes in no fit state, you cant 
take her with you, wherever it is 
youre planning to go, when youre 
making your clever speeches, trying to whip yourselves up a follow-
ing. He didnt like that, said Ab
erforth, and his eyes were briefly 
occluded by the firelight on the l
enses of his glasses: They shone 
white and blind again. Grindelwald 
didnt like that at all. He got 
angry. He told me what a stupid li
ttle boy I was, trying to stand in 
the way of him and my brilliant brother. . . . Didnt I 
understand, my poor sister wouldnt 
have to be hidden once theyd changed the 
world, and led the wizards out of
 hiding, and taught the Muggles 
their place? And there was an argument . . 
. and I pulled out my wand, and 
he pulled out his, and I had the Cruciatus Curse used on me by my 

brothers best friend  and Albus 
was trying to stop him, and then 
THE  MISSING MIRROR  567  all three of us were dueling, and 
the flashing lights and the bangs 
set her off, she coul
dnt stand it  The color was draining from Aber
forths face as though he had 
suffered a mortal wound. 
 and I think she wanted to help, but she didnt really know 
what she was doing, and I dont know
 which of us did it, it could 
have been any of us  and she was dead. 
His voice broke on the last word
 and he dropped down into the 
nearest chair. Hermiones face was wet with tears, and Ron was 
almost as pale as Aberforth. Ha
rry felt nothing but revulsion: He 
wished he had not heard it, wished
 he could wash his mind clean 
of it. Im so . . . Im so sor
ry, Hermione whispered. 
Gone, croaked Aberforth. Gone forever. 
He wiped his nose on his cuff and cleared his throat. 
Course, Grindelwald scarpered. 
He had a bit of a track record 
already, back in his own country, 
and he didnt want Ariana set to 
his account too. And Albus was free,
 wasnt he? Free of the burden 
of his sister, free to become th
e greatest wizard of the  
He was never free, said Harry. 

I beg your pardon? said Aberforth. 
Never, said Harry. The night th
at your brother died, he drank a 
potion that drove him out of his 
mind. He started screaming, plead-ing with someone who wasnt there.
 Dont hurt them, please . . . 
hurt me instead. 
Ron and Hermione were starin
g at Harry. He had never gone 
into details about what had happened
 on the island on the lake: The events that had taken place afte
r he and Dumbledore had returned 
to Hogwarts had eclips
ed it so thoroughly. 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-EIGHT  568  He thought he was back there 
with you and Grindelwald, I 
know he did, said Harry, remembering Dumbledore whimpering, 

pleading. He thought he was wa
tching Grindelwald hurting you 
and Ariana. . . . It was 
torture to him, if youd seen him then, you 
wouldnt say he was free. 
Aberforth seemed lost in contem
plation of his own knotted and 
veined hands. After a long pause he said, How can you be sure, 

Potter, that my brother 
wasnt more interested
 in the greater good 
than in you? How can you be sure
 you arent dispensable, just like 
my little sister? A shard of ice seemed to pierce Harrys heart. 
I dont believe it. Dumbledore
 loved Harry, said Hermione. 
Why didnt he tell him to hide, then? shot back Aberforth. 
Why didnt he say to him, Take care of yourself, heres how to 
survive? Because, said Harry before Hermione could answer, sometimes 
youve got to think about more than 
your own safety! Sometimes 
youve got to think about the grea
ter good! This is war! 
Youre seventeen, boy! 
Im of age, and Im going to ke
ep fighting even if youve given 
up! Who says Ive given up? The Order of the Phoenix is finished, Harry repeated. You-
Know-Whos won, its over, and 
anyone whos preten
ding differents 
kidding themselves. 
I dont say I like it
, but its the truth! No, it isnt, said Harry. Your brother knew how to finish You-
Know-Who and he passed the knowledge on to me. Im going to  
 THE  MISSING MIRROR  569  keep going until I succeed  or 
I die. Dont think I dont know 
how this might end. Ive known it for years. 
He waited for Aberforth to jeer or to argue, but he did not. He 
merely scowled. We need to get into Hogwarts, 
said Harry again. If you cant 
help us, well wait till daybreak, le
ave you in peace, and try to find 
a way in ourselves. If you 
can help us  well, now would be a great 
time to mention it. 
Aberforth remained fixed in his 
chair, gazing at
 Harry with the 
eyes that were so extraordinarily like
 his brothers. At last he cleared 
his throat, got to his feet, walked 
around the little table, and ap-
proached the portrait of Ariana. 
You know what to do, he said. She smiled, turned, and walked aw
ay, not as people in portraits 
usually did, out of the sides of th
eir frames, but along what seemed 
to be a long tunnel painted behind her. They watched her slight 
figure retreating unti
l finally she was swallo
wed by the darkness. 
Er  what  ? began Ron. 
Theres only one way in now, said Aberforth. You must know 
theyve got all the old secret pass
ageways covered at both ends, de-
mentors all around the boundary walls, regular patrols inside the 
school from what my sources tell
 me. The place has never been so 
heavily guarded. How you expect to do anything once you get inside 

it, with Snape in charge and the Ca
rrows as his deputies . . . well, 
thats your lookout, isnt it? You say youre prepared to die. 
But what . . . ? said Hermione
, frowning at Arianas picture. 
A tiny white dot had reappeared 
at the end of the painted tunnel, 
and now Ariana was walking back toward them, growing bigger  

 CHAPTER  TWENTY-EIGHT  570  and bigger as she came. 
But there was somebody 
else with her now, 
someone taller than she was, who 
was limping along, looking ex-
cited. His hair was longer than Ha
rry had ever seen it: He appeared 
to have suffered several gashes to 
his face and his clothes were ripped 
and torn. Larger and larger the tw
o figures grew, until only their 
heads and shoulders filled the portrait. Then the whole thing swung 
forward on the wall like a little 
door, and the entrance to a real tun-
nel was revealed. And out of it, his 
hair overgrown, his face cut, his 
robes ripped, clambered the real
 Neville Longbo
ttom, who gave a roar of delight, leapt down from the mantelpiece, and yelled, I 

knew youd come! 
I knew it, Harry
! C H A P T E R  T W E N T Y - N I N E   571  THE LOST DIADEM 
   eville  what the  how  ? 
But Neville had spotted Ron and Hermione, and with 
yells of delight was hugging them 
too. The longer 
Harry looked at 
Neville, the worse he appeared: One of his eyes was swollen yellow 
and purple, there were gouge marks on
 his face, and his general air of 
unkemptness suggested that he had 
been living rough. Nevertheless, 
his battered visage shone with ha
ppiness as he let go of Hermione 
and said again, I knew youd co
me! Kept telling Seamus it was a 
matter of time! Neville, whats happened to you? 
What? This? Neville dismissed hi
s injuries with a shake of the 
head. This is nothing. Seamus is wo
rse. Youll see. Shall we get go-
ing then? Oh, he turned to Aberforth, Ab, there might be a couple 

more people on the way. 
Couple more? repeated Aberforth ominously. What dyou  
 N CHAPTER  TWENTY-NINE  572  mean, a couple more, Longbottom
? Theres a curfew and a Cater-
wauling Charm on the whole village! 
I know, thats why theyll be Ap
parating directly into the bar, 
said Neville. Just send them dow
n the passage when they get here, 
will you? Thanks a lot. 
Neville held out his hand to He
rmione and helped her to climb 
up onto the mantelpiece and into
 the tunnel; Ron followed, then 
Neville. Harry addressed Aberforth. 
I dont know how to thank you. Youve 
saved our lives twice. Look after em, then, said Aber
forth gruffly. I might not be 
able to save em a third time. Harry clambered up onto the mant
elpiece and through the hole 
behind Arianas portrait. There were smooth stone steps on the other 
side: It looked as though the passageway had been there for years. 
Brass lamps hung from the walls 
and the earthy floor was worn 
and smooth; as they walked, their 
shadows rippled, fanlike, across 
the wall. How longs this been here? Ron as
ked as they set off. It isnt on 
the Marauders Map, is it, Harry?
 I thought there were only seven 
passages in and out of school? 
They sealed off all of those before the start of the year, said 
Neville. Theres no chance of getting through any of them now, 
not with curses over the entran
ces and Death Eaters and demen-
tors waiting at the exits. He st
arted walking backward, beaming, 
drinking them in. Never mind that stuff. . . . Is it true? Did you 
break into Gringotts? Did you esca
pe on a dragon? Its everywhere, 
everyones talking about it, Terry B
oot got beaten up by Carrow for 
yelling about it in the Great Hall at dinner! 
Yeah, its true, said Harry. 
THE  LOST DIADEM  573  Neville laughed gleefully. What did you do with the dragon? 

Released it into the wild, said Ron. Hermione was all for keep-
ing it as a pet  
Dont exaggerate, Ron  
But what have you been doing? Pe
ople have been saying youve 
just been on the run, Harry, but 
I dont think so. I think youve 
been up to something. 
Youre right, said Harry, but 
tell us about Ho
gwarts, Neville, 
we havent heard anything. 
Its been . . . well, its not rea
lly like Hogwarts anymore, said 
Neville, the smile fading from his 
face as he spoke. Do you know 
about the Carrows? Those two Death Eaters who teach here? 
They do more than teach, said Ne
ville. Theyre in charge of 
all discipline. They like punishment, the Carrows. 
Like Umbridge? 
Nah, they make her look tame. 
The other teachers are all sup-
posed to refer us to the Carrows if we do anything wrong. They 
dont, though, if they ca
n avoid it. You can tell
 they all hate them 
as much as we do. 
Amycus, the bloke, he teaches what used to be Defense Against 
the Dark Arts, except now its 
just the Dark Arts. Were sup-
posed to practice the Cruciatus 
Curse on people whove earned 
detentions  
What
? Harry, Ron, and Hermiones united voices echoed up and down 
the passage. 
Yeah, said Neville. Thats how I got this one, he pointed at a 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-NINE  574  particularly deep gash in his cheek, I refused to do it. Some people 
are into it, though; Crabbe and Goyl
e love it. First time theyve ever 
been top in anything, I expect. 
Alecto, Amycuss sister, teaches Muggle Studies, which is com-
pulsory for everyone. Weve all go
t to listen to her explain how 
Muggles are like animals, stupid and dirty, and how they drove 
wizards into hiding by being vicious toward them, and how the 

natural order is being reestablishe
d. I got this one, he indicated 
another slash to his face, for asking her how much Muggle blood 
she and her brother have got. 
Blimey, Neville, said Ron, theres a time and a place for get-
ting a smart mouth. 
You didnt hear her, said Nevi
lle. You wouldnt have stood it 
either. The thing is, it helps when people stand up to them, it gives 
everyone hope. I used to notice
 that when you did it, Harry. 
But theyve used you as a kni
fe sharpener, said Ron, wincing 
slightly as they passed a lamp an
d Nevilles injuries were thrown 
into even greater relief. 
Neville shrugged. Doesnt matter. They dont want
 to spill too much pure blood, 
so theyll torture us a bit if wer
e mouthy but they wont actually 
kill us. Harry did not know what was worse,
 the things that Neville was 
saying or the matter-of-fact tone in which he said them. The only people in real danger
 are the ones whose friends and 
relatives on the outside are giving trouble. They get taken hos-
tage. Old Xeno Lovegood was ge
tting a bit too outspoken in 
The 
Quibbler, so they dragged Luna off th
e train on the way back for 
Christmas. 
THE  LOST DIADEM  575  Neville, shes all right, weve seen her  Yeah, I know, she managed to get a message to me. 

From his pocket he pulled a go
lden coin, and Harry recognized 
it as one of the fake Galleons th
at Dumbledores Army had used to 
send one another messages. These have been great, said 
Neville, beaming at Hermione. 
The Carrows never rumbled how we were communicating, it drove 
them mad. We used to sneak out 
at night and put graffiti on the 
walls: Dumbledores Army, Still Recruiting,
 stuff like that. Snape 
hated it. 
You 
used to? said Harry, who had no
ticed the past tense. 
Well, it got more difficult as ti
me went on, said Neville. We 
lost Luna at Christmas, and Ginn
y never came back after Easter, 
and the three of us were sort of
 the leaders. The Carrows seemed 
to know I was behind a lot of it, so they started coming down on 

me hard, and then Michael Corner went and got caught releasing 
a first-year theyd chained up, and 
they tortured him pretty badly. 
That scared people off. 
No kidding, muttered Ron, as
 the passage began to slope 
upward. 
Yeah, well, I couldnt ask people to go through what Michael 
did, so we dropped those kinds of 
stunts. But we were still fighting, 
doing underground stuff, right up un
til a couple of weeks ago. Thats 
when they decided there was only one way to stop me, I suppose, 
and they went for Gran. 
They 
what
? said Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione together. Yeah, said Neville, panting a little now, because the passage 
was climbing so steeply, well, yo
u can see their thinking. It had 
worked really well, kidnapping kids to force their relatives to behave, 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-NINE  576  I spose it was only a matter of ti
me before they di
d it the other way 
around. Thing was, he faced th
em, and Harry was astonished to 
see that he was grinning, they bi
t off a bit more than they could 
chew with Gran. Little old witch livi
ng alone, they probably thought 
they didnt need to send anyone 
particularly powerful. Anyway, 
Neville laughed, Dawlish is still in St. Mungos and Grans on the 
run. She sent me a letter, he clap
ped a hand to the breast pocket 
of his robes, telling me she was 
proud of me, that Im my parents 
son, and to keep it up. 
Cool, said Ron. 

Yeah, said Neville happily. Only thing was, once they realized 
they had no hold over me, they 
decided Hogwarts could do without 
me after all. I dont know whether th
ey were planning to kill me or 
send me to Azkaban; either way, 
I knew it was time to disappear. 
But, said Ron, looking thor
oughly confused, arent  arent 
we heading straight back into Hogwarts? 
Course, said Neville. Youll see. Were here. 
They turned a corner and there 
ahead of them was the end of 
the passage. Another shor
t flight of steps led to
 a door just like the 
one hidden behind Arianas portra
it. Neville pushed it open and 
climbed through. As Harry followed, he heard Neville call out to 
unseen people: 
Look who it is! Didnt I tell you? As Harry emerged into the room 
beyond the passage, there were 
several screams and yells: HARRY! Its Potter, its POTTER! 
Ron! 
Hermione! He had a confused impression of colored hangings, of lamps and 
many faces. The next moment, he, Ron, and Hermione were en-

gulfed, hugged, pounded on the back
, their hair ruffled, their hands 
THE  LOST DIADEM  577  shaken, by what seemed to be mo
re than twenty people: They might 
just have won a Quidditch final. 
Okay, okay, calm down! Neville called, and as the crowd backed 
away, Harry was able to ta
ke in their surroundings. 
He did not recognize the room at all. It was enormous, and 
looked rather like the interior 
of a particularly sumptuous tree 
house, or perhaps a gigantic ship
s cabin. Multicolored hammocks 
were strung from the ceiling and 
from a balcony that ran around 
the dark wood-paneled and window
less walls, which were covered 
in bright tapestry hangings: Harr
y saw the gold Gryffindor lion, 
emblazoned on scarlet; the black 
badger of Hufflepuff, set against 
yellow; and the bronze eagle of Ra
venclaw, on blue. The silver and 
green of Slytherin alone were absent
. There were bulging bookcases, 
a few broomsticks propped against the walls, and in the corner, a 
large wooden-cased wireless. Where are we? 
Room of Requirement, of course
! said Neville. Surpassed it-
self, hasnt it? The Carrows were chasing me, and I knew I had just 
one chance for a hideout: I mana
ged to get through the door and 
this is what I found! Well, it wasn
t exactly like this when I arrived, 
it was a load smaller, there was 
only one hammock and just Gryf-
findor hangings. But its expanded as more and more of the D.A. 
have arrived. And the Carrows cant get in?
 asked Harry, looking around 
for the door. 
No, said Seamus Finnigan, whom Harry had not recognized 
until he spoke: Seamuss face was bruised and puffy. Its a proper 
hideout, as long as one of us stays 
in here, they cant get at us, the 
door wont open. Its all dow
n to Neville. He really 
gets
 this room. 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-NINE  578  Youve got to ask it for 
exactly what you need  like, I dont want 
any Carrow supporters to be able 
to get in  and 
itll do it for 
you! Youve just got to make sure
 you close the loopholes! Nevilles 
the man! Its quite straightforward, really
, said Neville modestly. Id 
been in here about a day and a ha
lf, and getting really hungry, and 
wishing I could get something to ea
t, and thats when the passage 
to the Hogs Head opened up. I went through it and met Aberforth. 
Hes been providing us with food,
 because for some reason, thats 
the one thing the room doesnt really do. 
Yeah, well, foods one 
of the five exceptions
 to Gamps Law of 
Elemental Transfiguration, said Ron to general astonishment. 
So weve been hiding out here for nearly two weeks, said Sea-
mus, and it just makes more hammocks every time we need them, 
and it even sprouted a pretty g
ood bathroom once girls started 
turning up  
 and thought theyd quite like to wash, yes, supplied Lav-
ender Brown, whom Harry had not noticed until that point. Now 
that he looked around 
properly, he recognized many familiar faces. 
Both Patil twins were there, as 
were Terry Boot, Ernie Macmillan, 
Anthony Goldstein, and Michael Corner. 
Tell us what youve been up to, though, said Ernie. Thereve 
been so many rumors, weve been trying to keep up with you on 

Potterwatch. He pointed at the wireless.
 You didnt break into 
Gringotts? 
They did! said Neville. A
nd the dragons true too! 
There was a smattering of applau
se and a few whoops; Ron took 
a bow. 

 THE  LOST DIADEM  579  What were you after? asked Seamus eagerly. 
Before any of them could parry th
e question with one of their 
own, Harry felt a terrible, scorchin
g pain in the lightning scar. As 
he turned his back hastily on th
e curious and delighted faces, the 
Room of Requirement vanished, an
d he was standing inside a ru-
ined stone shack, and the rotting 
floorboards were ripped apart at 
his feet, a disinterred golden box la
y open and empty beside the hole, 
and Voldemorts scream of fury
 vibrated inside his head. 
With an enormous effort he pu
lled out of Voldemorts mind 
again, back to where he stood, sw
aying, in the Room of Require-
ment, sweat pouring from his face and Ron holding him up. 
Are you all right, Harry? Neville
 was saying. Want to sit down? 
I expect youre ti
red, arent  ? 
No, said Harry. He looked at Ron and Hermione, t
rying to tell them without words that Voldemort 
had just discovered the loss of 
one of the other Horcruxes. Time
 was running out fast: If Volde-
mort chose to visit Hogwarts next, they would miss their chance. 
We need to get going, he said, and their expressions told him 
that they understood. What are we going to do, then,
 Harry? asked Seamus. Whats 
the plan? Plan? repeated Harry. He was 
exercising all his willpower to 
prevent himself succumbing again to
 Voldemorts rage: His scar was 
still burning. Well, theres something we  Ron, Hermione, and 
I  need to do, and then well get out of here. 
Nobody was laughing or whoopin
g anymore. Neville looked 
confused. 
What dyou mean, get out of here? 
 CHAPTER  TWENTY-NINE  580  We havent come back to stay,
 said Harry, rubbing his scar, 
trying to soothe the pain. There
s something important we need 
to do  What is it? 
I  I cant tell you. 
There was a ripple of mutter
ing at this: Nevilles brows 
contracted. 
Why cant you tell us? Its something to do with fighting You-
Know-Who, right? Well, yeah  

Then well help you. 
The other members of Dumbledore
s Army were nodding, some 
enthusiastically, others solemnly. A 
couple of them rose from their 
chairs to demonstrate their wi
llingness for immediate action. You dont understand. Harry seem
ed to have said that a lot 
in the last few hours. We  we 
cant tell you. Weve got to do 
it  alone. 
Why? asked Neville. Because . . . In his desperation to start looking for the miss-
ing Horcrux, or at least to have 
a private discussion with Ron and 
Hermione about where they migh
t commence their search, Harry 
found it difficult to gather his th
oughts. His scar was still searing. 
Dumbledore left the three of us a job, he said carefully, and 

we werent supposed to tell  I mean
, he wanted us to do it, just 
the three of us. 
Were his army, said Neville. Dumbledores Army. We were all 
in it together, weve been keeping it going while you three have been 
off on your own  

 THE  LOST DIADEM  581  It hasnt exactly been a picnic, mate, said Ron. 
I never said it had, but I dont see why you cant trust us. Every-
one in this rooms be
en fighting and theyve 
been driven in here 
because the Carrows were hunting them down. Everyone in heres 
proven theyre loyal to Du
mbledore  loyal to you. Look, Harry began, without knowing what he was going to 
say, but it did not matter: The tu
nnel door had just opened behind 
him. We got your message, Neville! 
Hello you three, I thought you 
must be here! 
It was Luna and Dean. Seamus gave a great roar of delight and 
ran to hug his best friend. 
Hi, everyone! said Luna happily.
 Oh, its great to be back! 
Luna, said Harry distractedly, what are you doing here? How 
did you  ? I sent for her, said Neville, 
holding up the fake Galleon. I 
promised her and Ginny that if you turned up Id let them know. 
We all thought that if you came back, it would mean revolution. 
That we were going to over
throw Snape and the Carrows. 
Of course thats what it means,
 said Luna brightly. Isnt it, 
Harry? Were going to figh
t them out of Hogwarts? Listen, said Harry with a rising sense of panic, Im sorry, but 
thats not what we came back fo
r. Theres something weve got to 
do, and then  Youre going to leave us in this mess? demanded Michael 
Corner. No! said Ron. What were doing
 will benefit everyone in the 
end, its all about trying to
 get rid of You-Know-Who   CHAPTER  TWENTY-NINE  582  Then let us help! sa
id Neville angrily. W
e want to be a part 
of it! There was another noise behind them, and Harry turned. His heart seemed to fail: Ginny was no
w climbing through the hole in 
the wall, closely followed by Fred, George, and Lee Jordan. Ginny 
gave Harry a radiant smil
e: He had forgotten, 
or had never fully ap-
preciated, how beautiful she was, 
but he had never been less pleased 
to see her. 
Aberforths getting a bit annoyed, said Fred, raising his hand 
in answer to several cries of greet
ing. He wants a kip, and his bars 
turned into a railway station. 
Harrys mouth fell open. Right behind Lee Jordan came Harrys 
old girlfriend, Cho Chang. She smiled at him. 
I got the message, she said, ho
lding up her own fake Galleon, 
and she walked over to si
t beside Michael Corner. 
So whats the plan, Harry? said George. There isnt one, said Harry, st
ill disoriented by the sudden ap-
pearance of all these people, unable
 to take everything in while his 
scar was still burn
ing so fiercely. 
Just going to make it up as we go along, are we? My favorite 
kind, said Fred. 
Youve got to stop this! Harry told Neville. What did you call 
them all back for? This is insane  Were fighting, arent we? said
 Dean, taking out his fake Gal-
leon. The message said Harry was back, and we were going to fight! 
Ill have to get a wand, though  
You havent got a 
wand
  ? began Seamus. 
Ron turned suddenly to Harry. 
 THE  LOST DIADEM  583  Why cant they help? What? 

They can help. He dropped his 
voice and said, so that none 
of them could hear but Hermio
ne, who stood between them, We 
dont know where it is. Weve got to find it fast. We dont have to 
tell them its a Horcrux. 
Harry looked from Ron to Herm
ione, who murmured, I think 
Rons right. We dont even know what were looking for, we need 
them. And when Harry looked un
convinced, You dont have to 
do everything alone, Harry. 
Harry thought fast, his scar still 
prickling, his head threatening 
to split again. Dumbledore had wa
rned him against telling anyone 
but Ron and Hermione about the Horcruxes. 
Secrets and lies, thats 
how we grew up, and Albus
 . . . 
he was a natural.
 . . . Was he turning 
into Dumbledore, keeping his secret
s clutched to his chest, afraid 
to trust? But Dumbledore had trusted Snape, and where had that 
led? To murder at the top of the highest tower . . . 
All right, he said qu
ietly to the other two. 
Okay, he called to 
the room at large, and all noise 
ceased: Fred and George, who had 
been cracking jokes for the benefit 
of those nearest, fell silent, and 
all of them looked alert, excited. Theres something we need 
to find, Harry said. Some-
thing  something thatll help us
 overthrow You-Know-Who. Its 
here at Hogwarts, but we dont 
know where. It might have be-
longed to Ravenclaw. Has anyone heard of an object like that? 
Has anyone ever come across some
thing with her eagle on it, for 
instance? 
He looked hopefully toward the little group of Ravenclaws, to  
 CHAPTER  TWENTY-NINE  584  Padma, Michael, Terry, and Cho, but it was Luna who answered, 
perched on the arm 
of Ginnys chair. 
Well, theres her lost diadem. 
I told you about it, remember, 
Harry? The lost diadem of Ravenc
law? Daddys trying to dupli-
cate it. 
Yeah, but the lost diadem, said Michael Corner, rolling his eyes, 
is lost, Luna. Thats sort of the point. 
When was it lost? asked Harry. 
Centuries ago, they say, said Ch
o, and Harrys heart sank. Pro-
fessor Flitwick says the diadem va
nished with Ravenclaw herself. 
People have looked, but, she appealed to her fellow Ravenclaws, 
nobodys ever found a tr
ace of it, ha
ve they? They all shook their heads. Sorry, but what 
is a diadem? asked Ron. 
Its a kind of crown, said Te
rry Boot. Ravenclaws was supposed 
to have magical properties, enha
nce the wisdom of the wearer. 
Yes, Daddys Wracks
purt siphons  
But Harry cut across Luna. 
And none of you have ever seen 
anything that looks like it? 
They all shook their heads agai
n. Harry looked at Ron and Her-
mione and his own disappointment 
was mirrored back at him. An 
object that had been lo
st this long, and apparently without trace, 
did not seem like a good candidat
e for the Horcrux hidden in the 
castle. . . . Before he could formulate a new question, however, Cho 
spoke again. 
If youd like to see what the di
adems supposed to look like, I 
could take you up to our commo
n room and show you, Harry? 
Ravenclaws wearing it in her statue. 
Harrys scar scorched again: For a moment the Room of Require-THE  LOST DIADEM  585  ment swam before him, and he sa
w instead the dark earth soaring 
beneath him and felt the great snak
e wrapped around his shoulders. 
Voldemort was flying again, whet
her to the underground lake or 
here, to the castle, he did not kn
ow: Either way, there was hardly 
any time left. 
Hes on the move, he said quietly to Ron and Hermione. He 
glanced at Cho and then back at them
. Listen, I know its not much 
of a lead, but Im going to go and l
ook at this statue, at least find 
out what the diadem looks like. 
Wait for me here and keep, you 
know  the other one  safe. 
Cho had got to her feet, but Ginny said rather fiercely, No, Luna 
will take Harry, wont you, Luna? 
Oooh, yes, Id like to, said
 Luna happily, and Cho sat down 
again, looking disappointed. How do we get out? Harry asked Neville. Over here. He led Harry and Luna to a co
rner, where a small cupboard 
opened onto a steep staircase. 
It comes out somewhere different every day, so theyve never 
been able to find it, he said. Onl
y trouble is, we never know exactly 
where were going to end up when we go out. Be careful, Harry, 
theyre always patrolling the corridors at night. 
No problem, said Harry. See you in a bit. 

He and Luna hurried up the staircase, which was long, lit by 
torches, and turned corners in u
nexpected places. At last they 
reached what appeared to be solid wall. 
Get under here, Harry told Luna, pulling out the Invisibility 
Cloak and throwing it ov
er both of them. He gave the wall a little 
push. CHAPTER  TWENTY-NINE  586  It melted away at his touch and they slipped outside: Harry glanced 
back and saw that it had resealed itself at once. They were stand-

ing in a dark corridor
: Harry pulled Luna back into the shadows, 
fumbled in the pouch around his ne
ck, and took out the Marauders 
Map. Holding it close to his nose
 he searched, and located his and 
Lunas dots at last. 
Were up on the fifth floor, he whispered, watching Filch mov-
ing away from them, a corridor ahead. Come on, this way. 
They crept off. 
Harry had prowled the castle at 
night many times before, but 
never had his heart hammered this
 fast, never had so much de-
pended on his safe passage thro
ugh the place. Through squares 
of moonlight upon the floor, past
 suits of armor whose helmets 
creaked at the sound of their soft footsteps, around corners beyond 
which who knew what lurked, Ha
rry and Luna walked, checking 
the Marauders Map whenever ligh
t permitted, twice pausing to 
allow a ghost to pass without draw
ing attention to themselves. He 
expected to encounter 
an obstacle at any moment; his worst fear 
was Peeves, and he strained his ears 
with every step to hear the first, 
telltale signs of the poltergeists approach. This way, Harry, breathed Luna, plucking his sleeve and pulling 
him toward a spiral staircase. 
They climbed in tight, dizzying 
circles; Harry had never been up 
here before. At last 
they reached a door. Ther
e was no handle and 
no keyhole: nothing but a plain ex
panse of aged wood, and a bronze 
knocker in the shape of an eagle. 
Luna reached out a pale hand, w
hich looked eerie
 floating in 
midair, unconnected to arm or body. She knocked once, and in the 

silence it sounded to Harry like a ca
nnon blast. At once the beak of 
THE  LOST DIADEM  587  the eagle opened, but instead of a birds call, a soft, musical voice 
said, Which came first, the phoenix or the flame? 
Hmm . . . What do you think, Harry? said Luna, looking 
thoughtful. What? Isnt there just a password? 
Oh no, youve got to answer a question, said Luna. 
What if you get it wrong? 

Well, you have to wait for some
body who gets it right, said 
Luna. That way you learn, you see? 
Yeah . . . Trouble is, we cant re
ally afford to wait for anyone 
else, Luna. 
No, I see what you mean, said Luna seriously. Well then, I 
think the answer is that a 
circle has no
 beginning. 
Well reasoned, said the voice, and the door swung open. The deserted Ravenclaw common
 room was a wide, circular 
room, airier than any Harry had ev
er seen at Hogwarts. Graceful 
arched windows punctuated the wall
s, which were hung with blue-
and-bronze silks: By day, the Ra
venclaws would have a spectacular 
view of the surrounding mounta
ins. The ceiling was domed and 
painted with stars, which were echoed in the midnight-blue carpet. 

There were tables, chairs, and book
cases, and in a 
niche opposite the door stood a tall statue of white marble. Harry recognized Rowena Ravencla
w from the bust he had seen 
at Lunas house. The statue stood besi
de a door that led, he guessed, 
to dormitories above. He strode right up to the marble woman, and 
she seemed to look back at him wi
th a quizzical half smile on her 
face, beautiful yet slightly intimidating. A delicate-looking circlet 
had been reproduced in marble on top of her head. It was not un-

like the tiara Fleur had worn at 
her wedding. There were tiny words 
CHAPTER  TWENTY-NINE  588  etched into it. Harry stepped out 
from under the Cloak and climbed 
up onto Ravenclaws pl
inth to read them. Wit beyond measure is ma
ns greatest treasure.
 Which makes you pretty skint, wi
tless, said a cackling voice. 
Harry whirled around, slipped off the plinth, and landed on the 
floor. The sloping-shouldered figure
 of Alecto Carrow was standing 
before him, and even as Harry raised his wand, she pressed a stubby 

forefinger to the skull and sn
ake branded on her forearm. C H A P T E R  T H I R T Y   589  THE SACKING OF 
SEVERUS SNAPE 
 he moment her finger touc
hed the Mark, Harrys scar 
burned savagely, the starry ro
om vanished from sight, and 
he was standing upon an outcrop of
 rock beneath a cliff, and the sea 
was washing around him and there was triumph in his heart  
They 
have the boy.
 A loud bang brought Harry back to wh
ere he stood: Disoriented, 
he raised his wand, but the witc
h before him was already falling 
forward; she hit the ground so hard
 that the glass in the bookcases 
tinkled. 
Ive never Stunned anyone except
 in our D.A. lessons, said 
Luna, sounding mildly interested. 
That was noisier than I thought 
it would be. 
And sure enough, the ceiling ha
d begun to tremble. Scurrying, 
echoing footsteps were growing lo
uder from behind the door lead-
ing to the dormitories: Lunas sp
ell had woken Ravenclaws sleeping 
above. 
T CHAPTER  THIRTY  590  Luna, where are you? I need
 to get under the Cloak! 
Lunas feet appeared out of nowher
e; he hurried to her side and 
she let the Cloak fall back over
 them as the door opened and a 
stream of Ravenclaws, all in th
eir nightclothes, flooded into the 
common room. There were gasps and 
cries of surprise as they saw 
Alecto lying there unconscious. Slow
ly they shuffled in around her, 
a savage beast that mi
ght wake at any mom
ent and attack them. 
Then one brave little first-year 
darted up to her and prodded her 
backside with his big toe. 
I think she might 
be dead! he shouted with delight. Oh, look, whispered Luna happi
ly, as the Ravenclaws crowded 
in around Alecto. Theyre pleased! 
Yeah . . . great . . . Harry closed his eyes, and as his scar throbbed he chose to sink 
again into Voldemorts mind. . . . He was moving along the tunnel 

into the first cave. . . . He had ch
osen to make sure of the locket 
before coming . . . but that 
would not take him long. . . . There was a rap on the common room door and every Ravenclaw 
froze. From the other side, Harry he
ard the soft, musical voice that issued from the eagle door knocke
r: Where do Vanished objects 
go? 
I dunno, do I? Shut it! snar
led an uncouth voice that Harry 
knew was that of the Carrow 
brother, Amycus. Alecto? 
Alecto? Are 
you there? Have you got him? Open the door! The Ravenclaws were whispering
 amongst themselves, terrified. 
Then, without warning, there came a series of loud bangs, as though 
somebody was firing a gun into the door. ALECTO
! If he comes, and we ha
vent got Potter  dyou 
want to go the same way as th
e Malfoys? ANSWER ME! Amycus 
THE  SACKING  OF SEVERUS  SNAPE  591  bellowed, shaking the door for all he
 was worth, but 
still it did not 
open. The Ravenclaws were all back
ing away, and some of the most 
frightened began scampering back 
up the staircase to their beds. 
Then, just as Harry was wondering 
whether he ought not to blast 
open the door and Stun Amycus b
efore the Death Eater could do 
anything else, a second, most fami
liar voice rang out beyond the 
door. May I ask what you are doing, Professor Carrow? 
Trying  to get  through t
his damned  door! shouted 
Amycus. Go and get Flitwick! Get him to
 open it, now! 
But isnt your sister in there? asked Professor McGonagall. 
Didnt Professor Flitwick let her in earlier this evening, at your 
urgent request? Perhaps she coul
d open the door for you? Then you 
neednt wake up ha
lf the castle. She aint answering, you old besom! 
You open it! Garn! Do it, 
now! 
Certainly, if you wish it, said Professor McGonagall, with aw-
ful coldness. There was a genteel ta
p of the knocker and the musical 
voice asked again, Where do Vanished objects go? 
Into nonbeing, which is to say, everything, replied Professor 
McGonagall. 
Nicely phrased, replied the eagle door knocker, and the door 
swung open. The few Ravenclaws who had rema
ined behind sprinted for the 
stairs as Amycus burst over the 
threshold, brandishing his wand. 
Hunched like his sister, he had a pallid, doughy face and tiny eyes, 
which fell at once on Alecto, sp
rawled motionless on the floor. He 
let out a yell of
 fury and fear. CHAPTER  THIRTY  592  Whatve they done, the little wh
elps? he screamed. Ill Cruci-
ate the lot of em till they tell me
 who did it  and 
whats the Dark 
Lord going to say? he shrieked, st
anding over his sister and smack-
ing himself on the forehead with 
his fist. We havent got him, and 
theyve gorn and killed her! Shes only Stunned,
 said Professor McGonagall impatiently, 
who had stooped down to examine Al
ecto. Shell be perfectly all 
right. No she bludgering well wont! 
bellowed Amycus. Not after 
the Dark Lord gets hold of her! 
Shes gorn and sent for him, I felt 
me Mark burn, and he thinks weve got Potter! Got Potter? said Professor McGonagall sharply. What do 
you mean, got Potter? 
He told us Potter might try and get inside Ravenclaw Tower, 
and to send for him 
if we caught him! 
Why would Harry Potter try to 
get inside Ravenclaw Tower? 
Potter belongs in my House! Beneath the disbelief and anger,
 Harry heard a little strain of 
pride in her voice, and affection
 for Minerva McGonagall gushed 
up inside him. 
We was told he might come in 
here! said Carrow. I dunno 
why, do I? Professor McGonagall stood up 
and her beady eyes swept the 
room. Twice they passed right over
 the place where Harry and Luna 
stood. We can push it off on the kids,
 said Amycus, his piglike face 
suddenly crafty. Yeah, thats what
 well do. Well say Alecto was 
ambushed by the kids, them kids up
 there  he looked up at the 
starry ceiling toward the dormitori
es  and well say they forced 
THE  SACKING  OF SEVERUS  SNAPE  593  her to press her Mark, and thats why he got a false alarm. . . . He can 
punish them. Couple of kids more or less, whats the difference? 
Only the difference between truth 
and lies, courage and coward-
ice, said Professor McGonagall, 
who had turned pale, a difference, 
in short, which you and your sister 
seem unable to appreciate. But let 
me make one thing very clear. You ar
e not going to pass off your many 
ineptitudes on the stud
ents of Hogwarts. I sh
all not permit it. Excuse me? Amycus moved forward until he 
was offensively close to Profes-
sor McGonagall, his face 
within inches of hers
. She refused to back 
away, but looked down at him as if
 he were something disgusting 
she had found stuck to a lavatory seat. 
Its not a case of what 
youll
 permit, Minerva McGonagall. Your 
times over. Its us whats in charge
 here now, and youll back me up or youll pay the price. 
And he spat in her face. 
Harry pulled the Cloak off himsel
f, raised his wand, and said, 
You shouldnt have done that. 
As Amycus spun around, Harry shouted, 
Crucio! The Death Eater was lifted off 
his feet. He writhed through the 
air like a drowning man, thrashin
g and howling in pain, and then, 
with a crunch and a shattering of 
glass, he smashed into the front 
of a bookcase and crumpled, insensible, to the floor. 
I see what Bellatrix meant, 
said Harry, the blood thundering 
through his brain, you ne
ed to really mean it. 
Potter! whispered Professor Mc
Gonagall, clutching her heart. 
Potter  youre here! What  ? 
How  ? She struggled to pull 
herself together. Potter, that was foolish! 
He spat at you, said Harry. 
CHAPTER  THIRTY  594  Potter, I  that was very  very 
gallant of you  but dont 
you realize  ? Yeah, I do, Harry assured her.
 Somehow her panic steadied 
him. Professor McGonagall, 
Voldemorts on the way. 
Oh, are we allowed to say the name now? asked Luna with an 
air of interest, pulling off the Invisi
bility Cloak. This appearance of 
a second outlaw seemed to over
whelm Professor McGonagall, who 
staggered backward and fell into a nearby chair, clutching at the 
neck of her old tartan dressing gown. 
I dont think it makes any difference what we call him, Harry 
told Luna. He already knows where I am. 
In a distant part of Harrys brain,
 that part connected to the an-
gry, burning scar, he could see Vold
emort sailing fast over the dark 
lake in the ghostly green boat. . . 
. He had nearly reached the island 
where the stone basin stood. . . . You must flee, whispered Pro
fessor McGonagall. Now, Potter, 
as quickly as you can! 
I cant, said Harry. Theres 
something I need to do. Professor, 
do you know where the diadem of Ravenclaw is? 
The d-diadem of Ravenclaw? Of 
course not  hasnt it been lost 
for centuries? She sat up a little st
raighter. Potter, it was madness, 
utter madness, for you to
 enter this castle  I had to, said Harry. Professo
r, theres something hidden here 
that Im supposed to find, and it 
could be the diadem  if I could 
just speak to Professor Flitwick  
There was a sound of movement, of
 clinking glass: Amycus was 
coming round. Before Harry or Luna could act, Professor McGona-
gall rose to her feet, pointed her 
wand at the groggy Death Eater, 
and said, 
Imperio. THE  SACKING  OF SEVERUS  SNAPE  595  Amycus got up, walked over to his sister, picked up her wand, 
then shuffled obediently to Professor McGonagall and handed it over 

along with his own. Then he lay 
down on the floor beside Alecto. 
Professor McGonagall waved her wand
 again, and a length of shim-
mering silver rope appeared out of
 thin air and snaked around the 
Carrows, binding them
 tightly together. Potter, said Professor McGo
nagall, turning to face him 
again with superb indifference to
 the Carrows predicament, if 
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named does 
indeed know that you are 
here  
As she said it, a wrath that was li
ke physical pain blazed through 
Harry, setting his scar on fire, and for a second he looked down 
upon a basin whose potion had turned clear, and saw that no golden 
locket lay safe beneath the surface  
Potter, are you all right? said a voice, and Harry came back: He 
was clutching Lunas shoulder to steady himself. 
Times running out, Voldemorts 
getting nearer. Professor, Im 
acting on Dumbledores orders, I mu
st find what he
 wanted me to 
find! But weve got to get the st
udents out while Im searching the 
castle  its me Voldemort wants, 
but he wont care about killing a 
few more or less, not now  
not now he knows Im attacking Hor-
cruxes, Harry finished the se
ntence in his head. 
Youre acting on 
Dumbledores
 orders? she repeat
ed with a look of 
dawning wonder. Then she drew he
rself up to her fullest height. 
We shall secure the school against He-Who-Must-Not-Be-
Named while you search fo
r this  this object. 
Is that possible? 
I think so, said Professor McGonagall dryly, we teachers are 
rather good at magic, you know. I am
 sure we will be able to hold 
CHAPTER  THIRTY  596  him off for a while if we all put ou
r best efforts into it. Of course, 
something will have to be done about Professor Snape  
Let me  
 and if Hogwarts is about to 
enter a state of siege, with the 
Dark Lord at the gates, it would indeed be advisable to take as 
many innocent people out of th
e way as possible. With the Floo 
Network under observation, and A
pparition impossible within the 
grounds  
Theres a way, said
 Harry quickly, and he
 explained about the 
passageway leading into the Hogs Head. 
Potter, were talking about hundreds of students  
I know, Professor, but if Voldemort and the Death Eaters are 
concentrating on the sch
ool boundaries they wo
nt be interested in 
anyone whos Disapparating out of the Hogs Head. 
Theres something in that, she 
agreed. She pointed her wand at 
the Carrows, and a silver net fell upon their bound bodies, tied itself 
around them, and hoisted them into the air, where they dangled 
beneath the blue-and-gold ceiling like two large, ugly sea creatures. 
Come. We must alert the other He
ads of House. Youd better put 
that Cloak back on. 
She marched toward the door, and as she did so she raised her 
wand. From the tip burst three silv
er cats with spectacle markings 
around their eyes. The Patronuses 
ran sleekly ahead, filling the spi-
ral staircase with silvery light, 
as Professor McGonagall, Harry, and 
Luna hurried back down. Along the corridors they raced, and one by one the Patronuses left 
them; Professor McGonagalls tartan
 dressing gown rustled over the 
floor, and Harry and Luna jogged
 behind her under the Cloak. 
 THE  SACKING  OF SEVERUS  SNAPE  597  They had descended two more fl
oors when another set of quiet 
footsteps joined theirs. Harry, whos
e scar was still 
prickling, heard 
them first: He felt in the pouch 
around his neck for the Marauders 
Map, but before he could take it
 out, McGonagall too seemed to 
become aware of their company. Sh
e halted, raised her wand ready 
to duel, and said, Whos there? It is I, said a low voice. 

From behind a suit of armor stepped Severus Snape. Hatred boiled up in Harry at the 
sight of him: He had forgotten 
the details of Snapes appearance 
in the magnitude of his crimes, 
forgotten how his greasy black hair 
hung in curtains around his thin 
face, how his black eyes had a dead
, cold look. He was not wearing 
nightclothes, but was dressed in his usual black cloak, and he too 
was holding his wand 
ready for a fight. 
Where are the Carrows? he asked quietly. 

Wherever you told them to be, 
I expect, Severus, said Profes-
sor McGonagall. Snape stepped nearer, and his eyes flitted over Professor McGona-
gall into the air around her, as 
if he knew that Harry was there. 
Harry held his wand up 
too, ready to attack. 
I was under the impression, said Snape, that Alecto had ap-
prehended an intruder. 
Really? said Professor McGonaga
ll. And what gave you that 
impression? 
Snape made a slight flexing movement of his left arm, where the 
Dark Mark was bran
ded into his skin. Oh, but naturally, said Profe
ssor McGonagall. You Death Eat-
ers have your own private means 
of communication, I forgot. 
 CHAPTER  THIRTY  598  Snape pretended not to have heard her. His eyes were still prob-
ing the air all about her, and he 
was moving gradually closer, with 
an air of hardly noticing what he was doing. 
I did not know that it was your night to patrol the corridors, 
Minerva. 
You have some objection? 
I wonder what could have brough
t you out of your bed at this 
late hour? I thought I heard a disturbance, said Professor McGonagall. 
Really? But all seems calm. 

Snape looked in
to her eyes. 
Have you seen Harry Potter, Mi
nerva? Because if you have, I 
must insist  
Professor McGonagall moved faster than Harry could have be-
lieved: Her wand slashed through th
e air and for a split second Harry 
thought that Snape must crumple, 
unconscious, but the swiftness of 
his Shield Charm was such that 
McGonagall was thrown off bal-
ance. She brandished her wand at a 
torch on the wall and it flew out 
of its bracket: Harry, about to curse Snape, was forced to pull Luna 
out of the way of the descending flam
es, which became a ring of fire 
that filled the corridor and flew like a lasso at Snape  
Then it was no longer fire, but a great black serpent that McGona-
gall blasted to smoke, which re-for
med and solidified in seconds to 
become a swarm of pursuing dagger
s: Snape avoided them only by 
forcing the suit of armor in front of him, and with echoing clangs 
the daggers sank, one after an
other, into its breast  
Minerva! said a squeaky voice,
 and looking behind him, still 
shielding Luna from flying spells
, Harry saw Professors Flitwick 
and Sprout sprinting up the corri
dor toward them in their night-
THE  SACKING  OF SEVERUS  SNAPE  599  clothes, with the enormous Profe
ssor Slughorn panting along at the 
rear. No! squealed Flitwick, raisin
g his wand. Youll do no more 
murder at Hogwarts! 
Flitwicks spell hit the suit of armor behind which Snape had 
taken shelter: With a clatter it 
came to life. Snape struggled free 
of the crushing arms and sent it fl
ying back toward his attackers: 
Harry and Luna had to dive sideways 
to avoid it as it smashed into 
the wall and shattered. When Harry looked up again, Snape was in 
full flight, McGonagall, Flitwick, and Sprout all thundering after 
him: He hurtled through a classroo
m door and, moments later, he 
heard McGonagall cry, Coward! COWARD
! Whats happened, whats 
happened? asked Luna. 
Harry dragged her to her feet and they raced along the corri-
dor, trailing the Invisibility Cloa
k behind them, into the deserted 
classroom where Professors McGona
gall, Flitwick, and Sprout were 
standing at a smashed window. He jumped, said Professor Mc
Gonagall as Harry and Luna ran 
into the room. 
You mean hes 
dead? Harry sprinted to the window, ignoring 
Flitwicks and Sprouts yells of
 shock at his sudden appearance. No, hes not dead, said McGonagall bitterly. Unlike Dumble-
dore, he was still carrying a wand 
. . . and he seems to have learned 
a few tricks from his master. 
With a tingle of horror, Harry saw 
in the distance a huge, batlike 
shape flying through the darkne
ss toward the perimeter wall. 
There were heavy footfalls behind them, and a great deal of puff-
ing: Slughorn had just caught up. 
Harry! he panted, massaging 
his immense chest beneath his 
CHAPTER  THIRTY  600  emerald-green silk pajamas. My dear
 boy . . . what a surprise . . . 
Minerva, do please explain. . 
. . Severus . . . what . . . ? Our headmaster is taking a shor
t break, said Professor McGona-
gall, pointing at 
the Snape-shaped hole in the window. 
Professor! Harry shouted, his ha
nds at his forehead. He could 
see the Inferi-filled lake sliding beneath him, and he felt the ghostly 
green boat bump into the undergro
und shore, and Voldemort leapt 
from it with murder in his heart  
Professor, weve got to barricad
e the school, hes coming now! 
Very well. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-N
amed is coming, she told 
the other teachers. Sprout and Flitwick gasped; Slughorn let out a 
low groan. Potter has work to do
 in the castle on Dumbledores 
orders. We need to put in place ev
ery protection of which we are 
capable while Potter does 
what he needs to do. 
You realize, of course, that noth
ing we do will be able to keep 
out You-Know-Who indefinitely? squeaked Flitwick. But we can hold him up,
 said Professor Sprout. Thank you, Pomona, said Pr
ofessor McGonagall, and between 
the two witches there passed a look 
of grim understanding. I sug-
gest we establish basic protection around the place, then gather 

our students and meet in the Grea
t Hall. Most must be evacuated, 
though if any of those who are over
 age wish to stay and fight, I 
think they ought to be given the chance. 
Agreed, said Professor Sprout
, already hurrying toward the 
door. I shall meet you in the Gr
eat Hall in twenty minutes with 
my House. 
And as she jogged out of sight, 
they could hear her muttering, 
Tentacula. Devils Snare. And Snargaluff pods . . . yes, Id like to 

see the Death Eaters fighting those. THE  SACKING  OF SEVERUS  SNAPE  601  I can act from here, said Flitwick, and although he could barely 
see out of it, he pointed his wand through the smashed window and 

started muttering incantations of
 great complexity. Harry heard a 
weird rushing noise, as though 
Flitwick had unleashed the power 
of the wind into the grounds. 
Professor, Harry said, approachin
g the little Charms master, 
Professor, Im sorry to interrupt, 
but this is impo
rtant. Have you 
got any idea where the diadem of Ravenclaw is? 
 Protego Horribilis  the diadem of Ravenclaw? squeaked 
Flitwick. A little extra wisdom never
 goes amiss, Potter, but I hardly 
think it would be much use in 
this situation! I only meant  do you know 
where it is? Have you ever 
seen it? 
Seen it? Nobody has seen it in 
living memory! Long since lost, 
boy! 
Harry felt a mixture of desper
ate disappointment and panic. 
What, then, was the Horcrux? We shall meet you and your Ra
venclaws in the Great Hall, 
Filius! said Professor McGonaga
ll, beckoning to Harry and Luna 
to follow her. 
They had just reached the door
 when Slughorn rumbled into 
speech. 
My word, he puffed, pale and sweaty, his walrus mustache 
aquiver. What a to-do! Im not at
 all sure whether this is wise, 
Minerva. He is bound to find a way in, you know, and anyone who 
has tried to delay him will be
 in most grievous peril  
I shall expect you and the Slythe
rins in the Great Hall in twenty 
minutes, also, said Professor Mc
Gonagall. If you wish to leave 
with your students, we shall not st
op you. But if any of you attempt 
CHAPTER  THIRTY  602  to sabotage our resistance or take up arms against us within this 
castle, then, Horace, we duel to kill. 
Minerva! he said, aghast. 
The time has come for Slytherin 
House to decide upon its loyal-
ties, interrupted Professor McGo
nagall. Go and wake your stu-
dents, Horace. Harry did not stay to watch Slughorn splutter: He and Luna ran 
after Professor McGonagall, who ha
d taken up a position in the 
middle of the corridor and raised her wand. 
Piertotum  oh, for heavens
 sake, Filch, not 
now
  
The aged caretaker had just come hobbling into view, shouting, 
Students out of bed! Students in the corridors! 
Theyre supposed to be, you blithering idiot! shouted McGona-
gall. Now go and do something 
constructive! Find Peeves! 
P-Peeves? stammered Filch as though he had never heard the 
name before. 
Yes, Peeves, you fool, 
Peeves! Havent you b
een complaining 
about him for a quarter of a centur
y? Go and fetch him, at once! 
Filch evidently thought Professor 
McGonagall had taken leave of 
her senses, but hobbled away, hu
nch-shouldered, muttering under 
his breath. 
And now  Piertotum Locomotor
! cried Professor McGonagall. 
And all along the corridor the statues and suits of armor jumped 
down from their plinths, and from the echoing crashes from the 
floors above and below, Harry knew 
that their fellows throughout 
the castle had done the same. Hogwarts is threatened! shoute
d Professor McGonagall. Man the boundaries, protect us, do your duty to our school! 
Clattering and yelling, the hord
e of moving statues stampeded 
THE  SACKING  OF SEVERUS  SNAPE  603  past Harry: some of them smaller, ot
hers larger, than life. There were 
animals too, and the clanking suits of armor brandished swords and 

spiked balls on chains. 
Now, Potter, said McGonaga
ll, you and Miss Lovegood had 
better return to your friends and 
bring them to the Great Hall  I 
shall rouse the other Gryffindors. 
They parted at the top of the 
next staircase, Harry and Luna 
running back toward the conceale
d entrance to the Room of Re-
quirement. As they ran, they met crowds of students, most wearing 
traveling cloaks over their pajama
s, being shepherded down to the 
Great Hall by teachers and prefects. 
That was Potter! 
Harry Potter
! It was him, I swear, I just saw him! 
But Harry did not look back, and at last they reached the entrance 
to the Room of Requirement. Ha
rry leaned against the enchanted 
wall, which opened to admit them
, and he and Luna sped back 
down the steep staircase. 
Wh  ? 
As the room came into view, Harry slipped down a few stairs in 
shock. It was packed, far more crowded than when he had last been 
in there. Kingsley and Lupin were 
looking up at him, as were Oliver 
Wood, Katie Bell, Angelina Johnso
n and Alicia Spinnet, Bill and 
Fleur, and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley. Harry, whats happening? said 
Lupin, meeting him at the foot 
of the stairs. Voldemorts on his way, theyre 
barricading the school  Snapes 
run for it  What are you doi
ng here? How did you know? We sent messages to the rest of Dumbledores Army, Fred 
CHAPTER  THIRTY  604  explained. You couldnt expect everyone to miss the fun, Harry, 
and the D.A. let the Order of the 
Phoenix know, and it all kind of 
snowballed. 
What first, Harry? called George. Whats going on? 
Theyre evacuating the younger 
kids and everyones meeting in 
the Great Hall to get organized,
 Harry said. Were fighting. 
There was a great roar and a surge to
ward the foot of the stairs; he 
was pressed back against the wall as
 they ran past him, the mingled 
members of the Order of the Ph
oenix, Dumbledores Army, and 
Harrys old Quidditch team, all with their wands drawn, heading 
up into the main castle. 
Come on, Luna, Dean called as
 he passed, holding out his free 
hand; she took it 
and followed him back up the stairs. The crowd was thinning: Only a li
ttle knot of people remained 
below in the Room of Requirement, and Harry joined them. Mrs. 

Weasley was struggling with Ginny. Around them stood Lupin, 
Fred, George, Bill, and Fleur. 
Youre underage! Mrs. Weasley shouted at her daughter as Harry 
approached. I wont permit it! Th
e boys, yes, but you, youve got 
to go home! 
I wont! 
Ginnys hair flew as she pulled he
r arm out of her mothers grip. 
Im in Dumbledores Army  

A teenagers gang! 
A teenagers gang thats about to
 take him on, which no one else 
has dared to do! said Fred. Shes sixteen! shouted Mrs. Weasley. Shes not old enough! 
What you two were thinking, 
bringing her with you  
Fred and George looked slightly ashamed of themselves. 
THE  SACKING  OF SEVERUS  SNAPE  605  Mums right, Ginny, said Bill gently. You cant do this. Every-
one underage will have to 
leave, its only right. I cant go home! Ginny shouted, angry tears sparkling in her 
eyes. My whole familys here, I ca
nt stand waiting there alone and 
not knowing and  Her eyes met Harrys for the firs
t time. She looked at him be-
seechingly, but he shook his head and she turned away bitterly. 
Fine, she said, staring at the en
trance to the tunnel back to the 
Hogs Head. Ill say good-bye now, then, and  There was a scuffling and a great thump: Someone else had clam-bered out of the tunnel, overbalanced
 slightly, and fallen. He pulled 
himself up on the nearest chair, 
looked around through lopsided 
horn-rimmed glasses, and said, Am I 
too late? Has it started? I only 
just found out, so I  I  Percy spluttered into silence. Evide
ntly he had not expected to run 
into most of his family. There wa
s a long moment of astonishment, 
broken by Fleur turning to Lupin and saying, in a wildly transparent 
attempt to break the tension, So  ow eez leetle Teddy? 
Lupin blinked at her, startled. 
The silence between the Weasleys 
seemed to be solidifying, like ice. I  oh yes  hes fine! Lupin 
said loudly. Yes, Tonks is with 
him  at her mothers  
Percy and the other Weasleys were
 still staring at one another, 
frozen. 
Here, Ive got a picture! Lupi
n shouted, pulling a photograph 
from inside his jacket
 and showing it to Fl
eur and Harry, who saw 
a tiny baby with a tuft of bright 
turquoise hair, waving fat fists at 
the camera. I was a fool! Percy roared, so 
loudly that Lupin nearly dropped 
CHAPTER  THIRTY  606  his photograph. I was an idiot, I was a pompous prat, I was 
a  a  
Ministry-loving, family-disowning, power-hungry moron, said 
Fred. 
Percy swallowed. 
Yes, I was! 
Well, you cant say fairer than that, said Fred, holding out his 
hand to Percy. 
Mrs. Weasley burst into tears. She ran forward, pushed Fred 
aside, and pulled Percy into a strang
ling hug, while he patted her on 
the back, his eyes on his father. 
Im sorry, Dad, Percy said. 
Mr. Weasley blinked rather rapidl
y, then he too hurried to hug 
his son. 
What made you see sense, 
Perce? inquired George. 
Its been coming on for a while,
 said Percy, mopping his eyes 
under his glasses with a corner of 
his traveling cloak. But I had to 
find a way out and its not so easy
 at the Ministry, theyre imprison-
ing traitors all the time. I manage
d to make contact with Aberforth 
and he tipped me off ten minutes 
ago that Hogwarts was going to 
make a fight of it, so here I am. 
Well, we do look to our prefects to
 take a lead at times such as 
these, said George in a good im
itation of Percys most pompous 
manner. Now lets get upstairs 
and fight, or all the good Death 
Eatersll be taken. 
So, youre my sister-in-law now?
 said Percy, shaking hands with 
Fleur as they hurried off toward 
the staircase with Bill, Fred, and 
George. Ginny! barked Mrs. Weasley. 
THE  SACKING  OF SEVERUS  SNAPE  607  Ginny had been attempting, unde
r cover of the reconciliation, 
to sneak upstairs too. 
Molly, how about this, said Lu
pin. Why doesnt Ginny stay 
here, then at least shell be on the scene and know whats going on, 
but she wont be in the mi
ddle of the fighting? I  
Thats a good idea, said Mr. We
asley firmly. Ginny, you stay in this room, you hear me? 
Ginny did not seem to like the id
ea much, but under her fathers 
unusually stern gaze, she nodded. Mr. and Mrs. Weasley and Lupin 

headed off for the 
stairs as well. Wheres Ron? asked Harr
y. Wheres Hermione? 
They must have gone up to the 
Great Hall already, Mr. Weasley called over his shoulder. I didnt see them pass me, said Harry. 

They said something about a bath
room, said Ginny, not long 
after you left. 
A bathroom? 
Harry strode across the room to an open door leading off the 
Room of Requirement and checke
d the bathroom beyond. It was 
empty. Youre sure they said bath  ? 
But then his scar seared and the Room of Requirement vanished: 
He was looking through the high 
wrought-iron gates with winged 
boars on pillars at either side, 
looking through the dark grounds 
toward the castle, which was ablaze
 with lights. Nagini lay draped 
over his shoulders. He was possessed of that cold, cruel sense of 
purpose that preceded murder. 
C H A P T E R  T H I R T Y - O N E   608  THE BATTLE OF 
HOGWARTS 
 he enchanted ceiling of the Gr
eat Hall was dark and scat-
tered with stars, and below it the four long House tables 
were lined with disheveled students,
 some in traveling cloaks, others 
in dressing gowns. Here and there 
shone the pearly white figures of 
the school ghosts. Every eye, living and dead, was fixed upon Profes-

sor McGonagall, who was speaking from the raised platform at the 
top of the Hall. Behind her stood th
e remaining teachers, including the palomino centaur, Firenze, and 
the members of the Order of the 
Phoenix who had arrived to fight. . . . evacuation will be overseen by Mr. Filch and Madam Pom-
frey. Prefects, when I give the word, 
you will organize your House and 
take your charges, in an orderly 
fashion, to the evacuation point. 
Many of the students looked petr
ified. However, as Harry skirted 
the walls, scanning the Gryffindor table for Ron and Hermione, 
Ernie Macmillan stood up at the Hufflepuff table and shouted, And 

what if we want to stay and fight? T THE  BATTLE  OF HOGWARTS  609  There was a smattering of applause. If you are of age, you may stay
, said Professor McGonagall. 
What about our things? called a girl at the Ravenclaw table. 
Our trunks, our owls? 
We have no time to collect posse
ssions, said Professor McGona-
gall. The important thing is to
 get you out of here safely. Wheres Professor Snape? shouted a girl from the Slytherin 
table. 
He has, to use the common phra
se, done a bunk, replied Pro-
fessor McGonagall, and a great cheer erupted from the Gryffindors, 

Hufflepuffs, and Ravenclaws. 
Harry moved up the Hall alongsid
e the Gryffindor table, still 
looking for Ron and Hermione. As he passed, faces turned in his 
direction, and a great deal of whispering broke out in his wake. 
We have already placed protection
 around the castle, Professor 
McGonagall was saying, but it is un
likely to hold for very long un-
less we reinforce it. I must ask yo
u, therefore, to move quickly and 
calmly, and do as your prefects  
But her final words were drowne
d as a different voice echoed 
throughout the Hall. It was high
, cold, and clear: There was no 
telling from where it came; it seem
ed to issue from the walls them-
selves. Like the monster it had on
ce commanded, it might have lain 
dormant there for centuries. 
I know that you are preparing 
to fight. There were screams 
amongst the students, some of wh
om clutched each other, look-
ing around in terror for the source
 of the sound. Your efforts are 
futile. You cannot fight me. I do not 
want to kill you. I have great 
respect for the teachers of Hogwarts
. I do not want to spill magical 
blood. CHAPTER  THIRTY-ONE  610  There was silence in the Hall now, the kind of silence that presses 
against the eardrums, that seems 
too huge to be contained by 
walls. Give me Harry Potter, 
said Voldemorts voice, and none shall 
be harmed. Give me Harry Potter, 
and I shall leave the school un-
touched. Give me Harry Potter
, and you will be rewarded. 
You have until midnight. 

The silence swallowed them all ag
ain. Every head turned, every 
eye in the place seemed to have 
found Harry, to hold him frozen 
in the glare of thousands of invi
sible beams. Then
 a figure rose 
from the Slytherin table and he re
cognized Pansy Parkinson as she 
raised a shaking arm and screamed
, But hes there! Potters 
there! Someone grab him! 
Before Harry could speak, ther
e was a massive movement. The 
Gryffindors in front of him had 
risen and stood facing, not Harry, 
but the Slytherins. Then the Hufflepuffs stood, and almost at the 
same moment, the Ravenclaws, all of them with their backs to 
Harry, all of them looking toward Pansy instead, and Harry, awe-
struck and overwhelme
d, saw wands emerging everywhere, pulled 
from beneath cloaks and from under sleeves. 
Thank you, Miss Parkinson, sa
id Professor McGonagall in a 
clipped voice. You will leave the Ha
ll first with Mr. Filch. If the 
rest of your House could follow. 
Harry heard the grinding of benc
hes and then the sound of the 
Slytherins trooping out on the other side of the Hall. Ravenclaws, follow on! cried Professor McGonagall. 
Slowly the four tables emptie
d. The Slytherin table was com-
pletely deserted, but a number of 
older Ravenclaws remained seated 
while their fellows filed out; even
 more Hufflepuffs stayed behind, 
THE  BATTLE  OF HOGWARTS  611  and half of Gryffindor remained in
 their seats, necessitating Profes-
sor McGonagalls descent from the te
achers platform 
to chivvy the 
underage on their way. 
Absolutely not, Creevey, go! 
And you, Peakes! 
Harry hurried over to the Weasleys
, all sitting together at the 
Gryffindor table. Where are Ron and Hermione? 
Havent you found  ? began 
Mr. Weasley, looking worried. 
But he broke off as Kingsley had stepped forward on the raised 
platform to address those 
who had remained behind. Weve only got half an hour until midnight, so we need to act 
fast! A battle plan has been agre
ed between the teachers of Hog-
warts and the Order of the Phoeni
x. Professors Flitwick, Sprout, 
and McGonagall are going to take groups of fighters up to the three 
highest towers  Ravenclaw, Astronomy, and Gryffindor  where 

theyll have a good overview, excelle
nt positions from which to work 
spells. Meanwhile Remus  he indicated Lupin  Arthur  he pointed toward Mr. Weasley, sittin
g at the Gryffindor table  and 
I will take groups into the grounds. Well need somebody to organize 
defense of the entrance
s of the passageways 
into the school  Sounds like a job for us, call
ed Fred, indicating himself and 
George, and Kingsley nodded his approval. All right, leaders up here and well di
vide up the troops! Potter, said Professor McGonaga
ll, hurrying up to him, as stu-
dents flooded the platform, jostling for position, receiving instruc-
tions, 
Arent you supposed to 
be looking for something
? What? Oh, said Harry, oh yeah! 
He had almost forgotten about 
the Horcrux, almost forgotten 
that the battle was being fought so that he could search for it: The 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-ONE  612  inexplicable absence of Ron and 
Hermione had momentarily driven every other thought from his mind. 
Then go, Potter, go! 
Right  yeah  
He sensed eyes following him as
 he ran out of the Great Hall 
again, into the entrance hall still crowded with evacuating students. 
He allowed himself to be swept up
 the marble staircase with them, 
but at the top he hurried off along a deserted corridor. Fear and 
panic were clouding his thought processes. He tried to calm himself, to concentrate on finding the Horc
rux, but his thoughts buzzed as 
frantically and fruitlessly as wasp
s trapped beneath a glass. Without 
Ron and Hermione to help him he 
could not seem to marshal his 
ideas. He slowed down, coming to
 a halt halfway along an empty 
passage, where he sat down upon the 
plinth of a departed statue and 
pulled the Marauders Map out of 
the pouch around his neck. He 
could not see Rons or Hermiones names anywhere on it, though 
the density of the crowd of dots 
now making its way to the Room 
of Requirement might, he thought, be concealing them. He put 
the map away, pressed his hands over his face, and closed his eyes, 
trying to concentrate. . . . 
Voldemort thought Id go to Ravenclaw Tower.
 There it was: a solid fact, the pl
ace to start. Voldemort had sta-
tioned Alecto Carrow in the Ravenclaw common room, and there 
could only be one explanation: Vo
ldemort feared that Harry already 
knew his Horcrux was conn
ected to that House. But the only object anyone seemed
 to associate with Ravenclaw 
was the lost diadem . . . and how 
could the Horcrux be the diadem? 
How was it possible that Voldemor
t, the Slytherin, had found the 
diadem that had eluded generat
ions of Ravenclaws? Who could 
THE  BATTLE  OF HOGWARTS  613  have told him where to look, when
 nobody had seen the diadem in 
living memory? 
In living memory
 . . . Beneath his fingers, Harrys eyes flew open again. He leapt up 
from the plinth and tore back th
e way he had come, now in pursuit 
of his one last hope. The sound of hundreds of people marching 
toward the Room of Requirement 
grew louder and louder as he 
returned to the marble stairs. Prefects were shouting instructions, 
trying to keep track of the stud
ents in their own Houses; there 
was much pushing and shoving; 
Harry saw Zacharias Smith bowl-ing over first-years to get to the 
front of the queue; here and there 
younger students were in tears, wh
ile older ones called desperately 
for friends or siblings. . . . Harry caught sight of a pearly w
hite figure drifting across the en-
trance hall below and yelled as loudly as he could over the clamor. 
Nick! NICK! I need 
to talk to you! He forced his way back through the tide of students, finally reach-
ing the bottom of the stairs, where Nearly Headless Nick, ghost of 
Gryffindor Tower, stood waiting for him. 
Harry! My dear boy! 

Nick made to grasp Harrys hands with both of his own: Harrys 
felt as though they had been thrust into icy water. 
Nick, youve got to help me. Whos the ghost of Ravenclaw 
Tower? Nearly Headless Nick looked su
rprised and a little offended. The Gray Lady, of course; but if it is ghostly services you 
require  ? Its got to be her  dyou know where she is? 

Lets see. . . . CHAPTER  THIRTY-ONE  614  Nicks head wobbled a little on 
his ruff as he turned hither and 
thither, peering over the heads of the swarming students. 
Thats her over there, Harry, 
the young woman with the long 
hair. Harry looked in the direction of 
Nicks transparent, pointing 
finger and saw a tall ghost who caught sight of Harry looking at her, raised her eyebrows, and drifte
d away through a solid wall. Harry ran after her. Once throug
h the door of the corridor into 
which she had disappeared, he saw 
her at the very end of the pas-
sage, still gliding smoothly away from him. 
Hey  wait  come back! 
She consented to pause, floating
 a few inches from the ground. 
Harry supposed that she was beautifu
l, with her waist-length hair 
and floor-length cloak, but she al
so looked haughty and proud. 
Close to, he recognized her as a 
ghost he had passed several times 
in the corridor, but to wh
om he had never spoken. Youre the Gray Lady? She nodded but did not speak. The ghost of Ravenclaw Tower? That is correct. 

Her tone was not encouraging. 
Please: I need some help. I need 
to know anything you can tell 
me about the lost diadem. 
A cold smile curved her lips. 
I am afraid, she said, turning to
 leave, that I cannot help you. 
WAIT! 
He had not meant to shout, but anger and panic were threatening 
to overwhelm him. He glanced at his watch as she hovered in front 

of him: It was a qu
arter to midnight. 
THE  BATTLE  OF HOGWARTS  615  This is urgent, he said fiercely
. If that diadems at Hogwarts, 
Ive got to find it, fast. 
You are hardly the first student 
to covet the diadem, she said 
disdainfully. Generations of students have badgered me  
This isnt about trying to get better marks! Harry shouted at 
her. Its about Voldemort  defea
ting Voldemort  or arent you 
interested in that? 
She could not blush, but her tr
ansparent cheeks became more 
opaque, and her voice was heated as she replied, Of course I  how 
dare you suggest  ? Well, help me, then! 
Her composure was slipping. 
It  it is not a question of 
 she stammered. My mothers 
diadem  Your 
mothers
? She looked angry with herself. 
When I lived, she said stiffly, I was Helena Ravenclaw. 
Youre her 
daughter? But then, you must know what happened 
to it! 
While the diadem bestows wisdom
, she said with an obvious 
effort to pull herself together, I do
ubt that it would greatly increase 
your chances of defeating the wi
zard who calls himself Lord  
Havent I just told you, Im not 
interested in we
aring it! Harry 
said fiercely. Theres no time to
 explain  but if you care about 
Hogwarts, if you want to see Voldem
ort finished, youve got to tell 
me anything you know
 about the diadem! She remained quite still, floating
 in midair, staring down at him, 
and a sense of hopelessness engulfe
d Harry. Of course, if she had 
known anything, she would have to
ld Flitwick or Dumbledore, who 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-ONE  616  had surely asked her the same ques
tion. He had shaken his head and 
made to turn away when 
she spoke in a low voice. 
I stole the diadem from my mother. 
You  you 
did what? I stole the diadem, repeated Helena Ravenclaw in a whisper. I 
sought to make myself cleverer, 
more important than my mother. 
I ran away with it. 
He did not know how he had managed to gain her confidence, 
and did not ask; he simply li
stened, hard, as she went on: 
My mother, they say, never admi
tted that the diadem was gone, 
but pretended that she had it still.
 She concealed her loss, my dread-
ful betrayal, even from the 
other founders of Hogwarts. 
Then my mother fell ill  fatally ill. In spite of my perfidy, she 
was desperate to see me one more
 time. She sent a man who had 
long loved me, though I spurned hi
s advances, to find me. She knew 
that he would not rest until he had done so. Harry waited. She drew a deep breath and threw back her head. He tracked me to the forest wh
ere I was hiding. When I refused 
to return with him, he became violent. The Baron was always a 
hot-tempered man. Furious at my 
refusal, jealous of my freedom, 
he stabbed me. The 
Baron
? You mean  ? 
The Bloody Baron, yes, said the 
Gray Lady, and she lifted aside 
the cloak she wore to reveal a single dark wound in her white chest. 
When he saw what he had done, 
he was overcome with remorse. 
He took the weapon that had claime
d my life, and used it to kill 
himself. All these centuries later, he
 wears his chains as an act of 
penitence . . . as he shou
ld, she added bitterly.  THE  BATTLE  OF HOGWARTS  617  And . . . and the diadem? 
It remained where I had hidden it when I heard the Baron blun-
dering through the forest toward
 me. Concealed inside a hollow 
tree. 
A hollow tree? repeated Harr
y. What tree? Where was this? 
A forest in Albania.
 A lonely place I thought was far beyond my 
mothers reach. 
Albania, repeated Harry. Sens
e was emerging miraculously 
from confusion, and now he unde
rstood why she was telling him 
what she had denied Dumbledore an
d Flitwick. Youve already told 
someone this story, haven
t you? Another student? 
She closed her eyes and nodded. I had . . . no idea. . . . He was . . . flattering. He seemed to . . . 
to understand . . . to
 sympathize. . . . Yes, Harry thought, Tom Riddle would certainly have understood 
Helena Ravenclaws desire to poss
ess fabulous objects to which she 
had little right. Well, you werent the first person
 Riddle wormed things out of, 
Harry muttered. He could be charming when he wanted. . . . 
So Voldemort had managed to wheed
le the location of the lost 
diadem out of the Gray Lady. He 
had traveled to that far-flung 
forest and retrieved the diadem from its hiding place, perhaps as 
soon as he left Hogwarts, before 
he even started work at Borgin 
and Burkes. 
And wouldnt those secluded Al
banian woods have seemed an 
excellent refuge when, so much la
ter, Voldemort had needed a place 
to lie low, undisturbed, for ten long years? 
But the diadem, once it became his precious Horcrux, had not  
 CHAPTER  THIRTY-ONE  618  been left in that lowly tree. . . 
. No, the diadem had been returned 
secretly to its true home, and Voldemort must have put it there  
 the night he asked for a jo
b! said Harry, finishing his 
thought. I beg your pardon? 
He hid the diadem in the cast
le, the night he asked Dumble-
dore to let him teach! said Harry. Saying it out loud enabled him 

to make sense of it all. He mu
stve hidden the diadem on his way 
up to, or down from, Dumbledores office! But it was still worth 
trying to get the job  then he mightve got the chance to nick 

Gryffindors sword as well  thank you, thanks! Harry left her floating there, l
ooking utterly bewildered. As he 
rounded the corner back into the entrance hall, he checked his watch. 
It was five minutes until midn
ight, and though he now knew 
what
 the 
last Horcrux was, he was no closer to discovering 
where it was. . . . Generations of students had failed
 to find the diadem; that sug-
gested that it was not in Ravencla
w Tower  but if not there, where? 
What hiding place had Tom Riddle discovered inside Hogwarts 
Castle, that he believed would remain secret forever? 
Lost in desperate speculation, 
Harry turned a corner, but he had 
taken only a few steps down the 
new corridor when the window to 
his left broke open with
 a deafening, shattering crash. As he leapt 
aside, a gigantic body flew in 
through the window and hit the op-
posite wall. Something large and 
furry detached itself, whimpering, 
from the new arrival and 
flung itself at Harry. 
Hagrid! Harry bellowed, fighti
ng off Fang the boarhounds 
attentions as the enormous bearde
d figure clambered to his feet. 
What the  ? 
Harry, yer here! 
Yer here
! THE  BATTLE  OF HOGWARTS  619  Hagrid stooped down, bestowed 
upon Harry a cursory and rib-
cracking hug, then ran back
 to the shattered window. 
Good boy, Grawpy! he bellowed 
through the hole in the win-
dow. Ill see yer in a moment, theres a good lad! Beyond Hagrid, out in the dark 
night, Harry saw bursts of light 
in the distance and heard a weird,
 keening scream. He looked down 
at his watch: It was midnig
ht. The battle had begun. 
Blimey, Harry, panted Hagrid, t
his is it, eh? Time ter fight? 
Hagrid, where have you come from? 
Heard You-Know-Who from up in our cave, said Hagrid 
grimly. Voice carried, didn it? Y
eh got till midnight ter gimme 
Potter. Knew yeh mus be here, knew what mus be happenin. 
Get down,
 Fang. So we come ter join in, me an Grawpy an Fang. 
Smashed our way through the boun
dary by the forest, Grawpy was 
carryin us, Fang an me. Told him 
ter let me down at the castle, so 
he shoved me through the window
, bless him. Not exacly what I 
meant, bu  wheres 
Ron an Hermione? 
That, said Harry, is a really good question. Come on. 
They hurried together along the 
corridor, Fang lolloping beside 
them. Harry could hear movement through the corridors all around: 

running footsteps, shouts; through 
the windows, he could see more 
flashes of light in the dark grounds. 
Wherere we goin? puffed Hagrid, pounding along at Harrys 
heels, making the floorboards quake. 
I dunno exactly, said Harry, 
making another random turn, 
but Ron and Hermione must be around here somewhere. . . . 
The first casualties of the battle were already strewn across the 
passage ahead: The two stone garg
oyles that usually guarded the 
entrance to the staffroom had been
 smashed apart by a jinx that 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-ONE  620  had sailed through another broken
 window. Their remains stirred 
feebly on the floor, and as Harry le
apt over one of their disembodied 
heads, it moaned faintly, Oh, don
t mind me . . . Ill just lie here 
and crumble. . . . 
Its ugly stone face made Harry th
ink suddenly of the marble bust 
of Rowena Ravenclaw 
at Xenophiliuss house, wearing that mad 
headdress  and then of the statue
 in Ravenclaw Tower, with the 
stone diadem upon he
r white curls. . . . And as he reached the end of th
e passage, the memory of a third 
stone effigy came back to him: that of an ugly old warlock, onto 

whose head Harry himself had placed 
a wig and a battered old tiara. 
The shock shot through Harry with 
the heat of firewhisky, and he 
nearly stumbled. 
He knew, at last, where the Ho
rcrux sat waitin
g for him. . . . Tom Riddle, who confided in no one and operated alone, might 
have been arrogant enough to as
sume that he, and only he, had 
penetrated the deepest mysteries of Hogwarts Castle. Of course, 
Dumbledore and Flitwick, those model pupils, had never set foot in 
that particular place, but he, Harry, had strayed off the beaten track 
in his time at school  here at 
last was a secret he and Voldemort 
knew, that Dumbledore ha
d never discovered  He was roused by Professor Sp
rout, who was thundering past 
followed by Neville and half a dozen others, all of them wearing 

earmuffs and carrying what appe
ared to be large potted plants. 
Mandrakes! Neville bellowed at 
Harry over his shoulder as he 
ran. Going to lob them over th
e walls  they wont like this! 
Harry knew now where to go: He sped off, with Hagrid and Fang 
galloping behind him. They passed portrait after portrait, and the  

 THE  BATTLE  OF HOGWARTS  621  painted figures raced alongside them, wizards and witches in ruffs 
and breeches, in armor and cloaks, 
cramming themselves into each 
others canvases, screaming news from
 other parts of the castle. As 
they reached the end of this co
rridor, the whole castle shook, and 
Harry knew, as a gigantic vase blew
 off its plinth with explosive 
force, that it was in the grip of
 enchantments more sinister than 
those of the teachers and the Order. 
Its all righ, Fang  its all righ! yelled Hagrid, but the great 
boarhound had taken flight as sliv
ers of china flew
 like shrapnel 
through the air, and Hagrid poun
ded off after the terrified dog, leaving Harry alone. He forged on through the trembl
ing passages, his wand at the 
ready, and for the length of one corridor the little painted knight, 
Sir Cadogan, rushed from painting
 to painting be
side him, clank-
ing along in his armor, screaming encouragement, his fat little pony 

cantering behind him. 
Braggarts and rogues, dogs and 
scoundrels, drive them out, 
Harry Potter, see them off! 
Harry hurtled around a corner and found Fred and a small knot 
of students, including Lee Jordan
 and Hannah Abbott, standing 
beside another empty plinth, whos
e statue had concealed a secret 
passageway. Their wands were drawn 
and they were listening at the 
concealed hole. 
Nice night for it! Fred shouted 
as the castle quaked again, and 
Harry sprinted by, elated and terrifi
ed in equal measure. Along yet 
another corridor he dashed, and 
then there were owls everywhere, 
and Mrs. Norris was hissing and tryi
ng to bat them with her paws, 
no doubt to return them to
 their proper place. . . .  CHAPTER  THIRTY-ONE  622  Potter! 
Aberforth Dumbledore stood blocking the corridor ahead, his 
wand held ready. 
Ive had hundreds of kids thundering through my pub, Potter! 
I know, were evacuating, Harry said, Voldemorts  
 attacking because they haven
t handed you over, yeah, said 
Aberforth, Im not deaf, the wh
ole of Hogsmeade heard him. And 
it never occurred to any of you to
 keep a few Slytherins hostage? 
There are kids of Death Eaters you
ve just sent to safety. Wouldnt 
it have been a bit smar
ter to keep em here? It wouldnt stop Voldemort, said Harry, and your brother 
would never have done it. Aberforth grunted and tore away in the opposite direction. 
Your brother would never have done it.
 . . . Well, it was the truth, 
Harry thought as he ran on agai
n; Dumbledore, who had defended 
Snape for so long, would never ha
ve held students ransom. . . . 
And then he skidded around a fina
l corner and with a yell of 
mingled relief and fu
ry he saw them: Ron 
and Hermione, both 
with their arms full of large, curv
ed, dirty yellow objects, Ron with 
a broomstick under his arm. 
Where the 
hell have you been? Harry shouted. 
Chamber of Secrets, said Ron. 
Chamber  
what? said Harry, coming to an unsteady halt 
before them. 
It was Ron, all Rons idea! said Hermione breathlessly. Wasnt 
it absolutely brilliant? There we 
were, after you left, and I said to 
Ron, even if we find the other on
e, how are we going to get rid of 
it? We still hadnt got rid of the cu
p! And then he thought of it! The 
basilisk! 
THE  BATTLE  OF HOGWARTS  623  What the  ? 
Something to get rid of Ho
rcruxes, said Ron simply. 
Harrys eyes dropped to the obje
cts clutched in Ron and Hermi-
ones arms: great curved fangs, torn
, he now realized, from the skull 
of a dead basilisk. But how did you get in there? he asked, staring from the fangs 
to Ron. You need to speak Parseltongue! 
He did! whispered Hermione. Show him, Ron! 
Ron made a horrible strangled hissing noise. 
Its what you did to open the lo
cket, he told Harry apologeti-
cally. I had to have a few goes to get it right, but, he shrugged 
modestly, we got there in the end. 
He was amazing.
 said Hermione. Amazing! 
So . . . Harry was struggling to keep
 up. So . . . So were another Horcrux down, said Ron, and from under his 
jacket he pulled the mangled rema
ins of Hufflepuffs cup. Hermione 
stabbed it. Thought she should. She hasnt had the pleasure yet. 
Genius! yelled Harry. 
It was nothing, said Ron, though he looked delighted with 
himself. So whats new with you? 
As he said it, there was an explosion from overhead: All three 
of them looked up as dust fell from the ceiling and they heard a 
distant scream. I know what the diadem looks like, and I know where it is, said Harry, talking fast. He hid it ex
actly where I hid my old Potions 
book, where everyones been hiding st
uff for centuries. He thought 
he was the only one to find it. Come on. 
As the walls trembled again, he
 led the other two back through 
the concealed entrance and down the staircase into the Room of 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-ONE  624  Requirement. It was empty except
 for three women: Ginny, Tonks, 
and an elderly witch wearing a 
moth-eaten hat, whom Harry rec-
ognized immediately as Nevilles grandmother. 
Ah, Potter, she said crisply as
 if she had been waiting for him. 
You can tell us whats going on. 
Is everyone okay? said Ginny and Tonks together. 
S far as we know, said Harry. Are there still people in the pas-
sage to the Hogs Head? 
He knew that the room would no
t be able to transform while 
there were still users inside it. 
I was the last to come through, 
said Mrs. Longbottom. I sealed 
it, I think it unwise to leave it open now Aberforth has left his pub. 
Have you seen my grandson? 
Hes fighting, said Harry. 
Naturally, said the old lady 
proudly. Excuse me, I must go 
and assist him. 
With surprising speed
 she trotted off towa
rd the stone steps. 
Harry looked at Tonks. 
I thought you were supposed 
to be with Teddy at your 
mothers? 
I couldnt stand not knowing 
 Tonks looked anguished. 
Shell look after him  have you seen Remus? 
He was planning to lead a 
group of fighters into the 
grounds  
Without another word, Tonks sped off. Ginny, said Harry, Im sorry, 
but we need you to leave too. 
Just for a bit. Then yo
u can come back in. 
Ginny looked simply delighted to leave her sanctuary. 
 THE  BATTLE  OF HOGWARTS  625  And then you can come back in! he shouted after her as she ran 
up the steps after Tonks. 
Youve got to come back in
! Hang on a moment! said Ron sharply. Weve forgotten 
someone! Who? asked Hermione. 
The house-elves, theyll all be down in the kitchen, wont 
they? You mean we ought to get them fighting? asked Harry. 
No, said Ron seriously, I mean 
we should tell them to get out. 
We dont want any more Dobbies,
 do we? We cant order them to 
die for us  
There was a clatter as the basili
sk fangs cascaded out of Hermi-
ones arms. Running at Ron, she 
flung them around his neck and 
kissed him full on the mouth. Ron 
threw away the fangs and broom-
stick he was holding and responded 
with such enthusiasm that he 
lifted Hermione off her feet. 
Is this the moment? Harry as
ked weakly, and when nothing 
happened except that Ron and He
rmione gripped each other still 
more firmly and swayed on the spot, he raised his voice. OI! Theres 
a war going on here! 
Ron and Hermione broke apart, their arms still around each 
other. I know, mate, said Ron, who l
ooked as though he had recently 
been hit on the back of
 the head with a Bludger, so its now or 
never, isnt it? 
Never mind that, what about the Horcrux? Harry shouted. 
Dyou think you could just  just
 hold it in until weve got the 
diadem? 
 CHAPTER  THIRTY-ONE  626  Yeah  right  sorry  said 
Ron, and he and Hermione set 
about gathering up fangs, both pink in the face. 
It was clear, as the three of th
em stepped back 
into the corridor 
upstairs, that in the minutes that
 they had spent in the Room of 
Requirement the situation within the castle had deteriorated se-
verely: The walls and ceiling were
 shaking worse than ever; dust 
filled the air, and through the ne
arest window, Harry saw bursts of 
green and red light so close to the 
foot of the castle
 that he knew 
the Death Eaters must be very near to entering the place. Look-
ing down, Harry saw Grawp the gian
t meandering past, swinging 
what looked like a stone gargoyle torn from the roof and roaring 
his displeasure. 
Lets hope he steps on some of them! said Ron as more screams 
echoed from close by. 
As long as its not any of our lo
t! said a voice: Harry turned and 
saw Ginny and Tonks, both with 
their wands drawn at the next win-
dow, which was missing several panes. Even as he watched, Ginny 
sent a well-aimed jinx into 
a crowd of fighters below. Good girl! roared a figure ru
nning through the dust toward 
them, and Harry saw Aberforth again, his gray hair flying as he led a small group of students past. They 
look like they might be breach-
ing the north battlements, theyv
e brought giants of their own! 
Have you seen Remus? Tonks called after him. 
He was dueling Dolohov, shouted Aberforth, havent seen him 
since! Tonks, said Ginny, Tonks, Im sure hes okay  
But Tonks had run off into 
the dust after Aberforth. 
Ginny turned, helpless, to 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione. 
Theyll be all right, said Harr
y, though he knew they were 
THE  BATTLE  OF HOGWARTS  627  empty words. Ginny, well be back in a moment, just keep out 
of the way, keep safe  come on! he said to Ron and Hermione, 

and they ran back to th
e stretch of wall beyond which the Room of 
Requirement was waiting to do the 
bidding of the next entrant. 
I need the place where everything is hidden,
 Harry begged of it in-
side his head, and the door materialized on their third run past. The furor of the battle died the 
moment they crossed the thresh-
old and closed the door behind 
them: All was silent. They were 
in a place the size of a cathedral 
with the appearance of a city, its 
towering walls built of objects hidden by thousands of long-gone 

students. And he never realized 
anyone could get in? said Ron, his voice 
echoing in the silence. 
He thought he was the only one,
 said Harry. Too bad for him 
Ive had to hide stuff in my time . . . this way, he added, I think 

its down here. . . . 
He passed the stuffed troll an
d the Vanishing Cabinet Draco 
Malfoy had mended last year with such disastrous consequences, 
then hesitated, looking up and down
 aisles of junk; he could not 
remember where to go next. . . . 
Accio Diadem
! cried Hermione in desperation, but nothing flew 
through the air toward th
em. It seemed that, like the vault at Grin-
gotts, the room would not yield its hidden 
objects that easily. 
Lets split up, Harry told the ot
her two. Look for a stone bust 
of an old man wearing a wig and a ti
ara! Its standing on a cupboard 
and its definitely some
where near here. . . . 
They sped off up adjacent aisl
es; Harry could hear the others 
footsteps echoing through the towering piles of junk, of bottles, 

hats, crates, chairs, books, weapons, broomsticks, bats. . . . 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-ONE  628  Somewhere near here, Harry muttered to himself. Some-
where . . . somewhere . . . Deeper and deeper into the labyrinth he went, looking for objects 
he recognized from his one previous
 trip into the room. His breath 
was loud in his ears, and then his 
very soul seemed to shiver: There 
it was, right ahead, the blistered 
old cupboard in which he had hid-
den his old Potions book, and on 
top of it, the pockmarked stone 
warlock wearing a dusty old wig and what looked like an ancient, 
discolored tiara. He had already stretched out his 
hand, though he remained ten 
feet away, when a voice behind
 him said, Hold it, Potter. 
He skidded to a halt and turned
 around. Crabbe and Goyle were 
standing behind him, shoulder to
 shoulder, wands pointing right 
at Harry. Through the small space 
between their jeering faces he 
saw Draco Malfoy. Thats my wand youre holding,
 Potter, said Malfoy, pointing 
his own through the gap between Crabbe and Goyle. 
Not anymore, panted Harry, tightening his grip on the haw-
thorn wand. Winners, 
keepers, Malfoy. Who
s lent you theirs? 
My mother, said Draco. 

Harry laughed, though there wa
s nothing very humorous about 
the situation. He could not hear
 Ron or Hermione anymore. They 
seemed to have run out of earshot, searching for the diadem. 
So how come you three arent 
with Voldemort? asked Harry. Were gonna be rewarded, said Crabbe: His voice was surpris-
ingly soft for such an enormous person; Harry had hardly ever heard 
him speak before. Crabbe was smiling like a small child promised 
a large bag of sweets. We ung ba
ck, Potter. We decided not to go. 
Decided to bring you to im. 
THE  BATTLE  OF HOGWARTS  629  Good plan, said Harry in mock
 admiration. He could not be-
lieve that he was this close, and was going to be thwarted by Malfoy, 

Crabbe, and Goyle. He began edging slowly backward toward the 
place where the Horcrux sat lopsided upon the bust. If he could just 
get his hands on it before
 the fight broke out . . . 
So how did you get in here? he asked, trying to distract them. 
I virtually lived in 
the Room of Hidden Things all last year, 
said Malfoy, his voice brittle.
 I know how to get in. 
We was hiding in the corridor outside, grunted Goyle. We can 
do Diss-lusion Charms now! And then, his face split into a gormless 

grin, you turned up right in fron
t of us and said you was looking 
for a die-dum! Whats a die-dum? 
Harry? Rons voice echoed suddenly from the other side of the 
wall to Harrys right. Are
 you talking to someone? With a whiplike movement, Crab
be pointed his wand at the 
fifty-foot mountain of old furnitur
e, of broken trunks, of old books 
and robes and unidentifiable junk, and shouted, Descendo
! The wall began to totter, then th
e top third crumbled into the 
aisle next door where Ron stood. Ron! Harry bellowed, as somewhere out of sight Hermione 
screamed, and Harry heard innumerable objects crashing to the 
floor on the other side 
of the destabilized wall: He pointed his wand 
at the rampart, cried, 
Finite
! and it steadied. 
No! shouted Malfoy, staying Crabbes arm as the latter made 
to repeat his spell. If you wr
eck the room you might bury this 
diadem thing! 
Whats that matter? said Crab
be, tugging himself free. Its 
Potter the Dark Lord wants, 
who cares about a die-dum? 
Potter came in here to get it,
 said Malfoy with ill-disguised 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-ONE  630  impatience at the slow-wittedness 
of his colleagues, so that must 
mean  
Must mean? Crabbe turned 
on Malfoy with undisguised fe-
rocity. Who cares what you think? 
I dont take your orders no more, 
Draco. You an your dad are finished. 
Harry? shouted Ron again, from
 the other side of the junk 
wall. Whats going on? 
Harry? mimicked Crabbe. Whats going  
no, Potter! 
Crucio! Harry had lunged for the tiara; Crabbes curse missed him but hit 
the stone bust, which flew into th
e air; the diadem soared upward 
and then dropped out of sight in 
the mass of objects on which the 
bust had rested. 
STOP! Malfoy shouted at Crab
be, his voice echoing through 
the enormous room. The Dark
 Lord wants him alive  So? Im not killing him, am I? yelled Crabbe, throwing off 
Malfoys restraining arm. But if 
I can, I will, the Dark Lord wants 
him dead anyway, whats the diff  ? 
A jet of scarlet light shot past Harry by inches: Hermione had run 
around the corner behi
nd him and sent a Stun
ning Spell straight 
at Crabbes head. It only missed 
because Malfoy pulled him out of 
the way. Its that Mudblood! Avada Kedavra! Harry saw Hermione dive aside, 
and his fury that Crabbe had 
aimed to kill wiped all 
else from his mind. He shot a Stunning Spell 
at Crabbe, who lurched out of the way, knocking Malfoys wand 
out of his hand; it rolled out of 
sight beneath a mountain of broken 
furniture and boxes. 
Dont kill him! DONT KILL HIM!
 Malfoy yelled at Crabbe 
THE  BATTLE  OF HOGWARTS  631  and Goyle, who were both aiming
 at Harry: Their split seconds 
hesitation was all Harry needed. 
Expelliarmus! Goyles wand flew out of his ha
nd and disappeared into the bul-
wark of objects beside him; Goyle le
apt foolishly on the spot, trying 
to retrieve it; Malfoy jumped out of range of Hermiones second 
Stunning Spell, and Ron, appearing suddenly at the end of the aisle, 

shot a full Body-Bind Curse at
 Crabbe, which 
narrowly missed. 
Crabbe wheeled around and screamed, 
Avada Kedavra! again. 
Ron leapt out of sight to avoid th
e jet of green light. The wand-
less Malfoy cowered behind a three-
legged wardrobe as Hermione 
charged toward them, hitting Goyl
e with a Stunning Spell as she 
came. Its somewhere here! 
Harry yelled at her, 
pointing at the pile 
of junk into which the old tiara had fallen. Look for it while I go 

and help R  
HARRY! she screamed. 
A roaring, billowing noise behind him gave him a moments 
warning. He turned and saw both 
Ron and Crabbe running as hard 
as they could up the aisle toward them. 
Like it hot, scum? roared Crabbe as he ran. 
But he seemed to have no contro
l over what he had done. Flames 
of abnormal size were pursuing them, licking up the sides of the junk 

bulwarks, which were crumblin
g to soot at their touch. Aguamenti! Harry bawled, but the jet of
 water that soared from 
the tip of his wand evaporated in the air. RUN! 
Malfoy grabbed the Stunned Go
yle and dragged him along; 
Crabbe outstripped all of them, now looking terrified; Harry, Ron, 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-ONE  632  and Hermione pelted along in his 
wake, and the fire pursued them. 
It was not normal fire; Crabbe had used a curse of which Harry had 

no knowledge: As they turned a corner the flames chased them as 
though they were alive, sentient, 
intent upon killing them. Now the 
fire was mutating, forming a gigant
ic pack of fiery beasts: Flaming 
serpents, chimaeras, and dragons ro
se and fell and rose again, and 
the detritus of centur
ies on which they were
 feeding was thrown 
up in the air into their fanged 
mouths, tossed high on clawed feet, 
before being consumed by the inferno. 
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had vanished from view: Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione stopped dead; the fiery monsters were circling them, 
drawing closer and closer, claws and horns and tails lashed, and the 
heat was solid as a wall around them. 
What can we do? Hermione scream
ed over the deafening roars 
of the fire. What can we do? 
Here! Harry seized a pair of heavy-looking broomsticks from the nearest 
pile of junk and threw one to Ro
n, who pulled Hermione onto it 
behind him. Harry swung his leg over the second broom and, with 
hard kicks to the ground, they soared up into the air, missing by feet 

the horned beak of a flaming raptor
 that snapped its jaws at them. 
The smoke and heat were becoming
 overwhelming: Below them the 
cursed fire was consuming the cont
raband of generations of hunted 
students, the guilty outcomes of 
a thousand banned experiments, 
the secrets of the countless souls who had sought refuge in the room. 
Harry could not see a trace of Malf
oy, Crabbe, or Goyle anywhere: 
He swooped as low as he dared 
over the marauding monsters of 
flame to try to find them, but th
ere was nothing but fire: What a 
terrible way to die. . . . He
 had never wanted this. . . . THE  BATTLE  OF HOGWARTS  633  Harry, lets get out, lets get out! bellowed Ron, though it was 
impossible to see where the doo
r was through the black smoke. 
And then Harry heard a thin, piteou
s human scream from amidst the terrible commotion, the thunder of devouring flame. Its  too  dangerous  ! Ron yelled, but Harry wheeled in 
the air. His glasses giving his eyes
 some small protection from the 
smoke, he raked the firestorm below,
 seeking a sign of life, a limb 
or a face that was not yet charred like wood. . . . And he saw them: Malfoy with his
 arms around the unconscious 
Goyle, the pair of them
 perched on a fragile to
wer of charred desks, 
and Harry dived. Malfoy saw him 
coming and raised one arm, but 
even as Harry grasped it he knew at
 once that it was no good: Goyle 
was too heavy and Malfoys hand, co
vered in sweat, slid instantly 
out of Harrys  
IF WE DIE FOR THEM, ILL 
KILL YOU, HARRY! roared 
Rons voice, and, as a great fla
ming chimaera bore down upon them, 
he and Hermione dragged Goyle on
to their broom and rose, roll-
ing and pitching, into the air once
 more as Malfoy clambered up 
behind Harry. The door, get to the door, the door! screamed Malfoy in Har-
rys ear, and Harry sped up, following Ron, Hermione, and Goyle 
through the billowing black smoke, 
hardly able to breathe: and all 
around them the last 
few objects unburned by
 the devouring flames 
were flung into the air, as the crea
tures of the cursed fire cast them 
high in celebration: cups and shie
lds, a sparkling necklace, and an 
old, discolored tiara  
What are you doing, what are you doing, the doors that way
! screamed Malfoy, but Harry made 
a hairpin swerve and dived. The 
diadem seemed to fall in slow mo
tion, turning and glittering as it 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-ONE  634  dropped toward the maw of a yawn
ing serpent, and then he had it, 
caught it around his wrist  
Harry swerved again as the serpen
t lunged at him
; he soared 
upward and straight toward the 
place where, he prayed, the door 
stood open: Ron, Hermione, and Go
yle had vanished; Malfoy was 
screaming and holding Harry so ti
ghtly it hurt. Then, through the 
smoke, Harry saw a rectangular patch on the wall and steered the 

broom at it, and moments later clea
n air filled his lungs and they 
collided with the wall 
in the corridor beyond. 
Malfoy fell off the broom and la
y facedown, gasping, coughing, 
and retching. Harry rolled over 
and sat up: The door to the Room 
of Requirement had vanished, an
d Ron and Hermione sat panting 
on the floor beside Goyle, who was still unconscious. 
C-Crabbe, choked Malfoy as soon as he could speak. C-
Crabbe . . . Hes dead, said Ron harshly. 
There was silence, apart from panting and coughing. Then a num-
ber of huge bangs shook the castle
, and a great cavalcade of trans-
parent figures galloped past on 
horses, their heads screaming with 
bloodlust under their arms. Harry staggered to his feet when the 
Headless Hunt had passed and looked around: The battle was still 
going on all around him. He coul
d hear more screams than those 
of the retreating ghosts. Panic flared within him. 
Wheres Ginny? he said sharply. She was here. She was sup-
posed to be going back into the Room of Requirement. 
Blimey, dyou reckon itll still wo
rk after that fire? asked Ron, 
but he too got to his feet, rubbin
g his chest and l
ooking left and 
right. Shall we split up and look  ? 
No, said Hermione, getting to 
her feet too. Malfoy and Goyle 
THE  BATTLE  OF HOGWARTS  635  remained slumped hopelessly on th
e corridor floor; neither of them 
had wands. Lets stick together. 
I say we go  Harry, whats that 
on your arm? 
What? Oh yeah  
He pulled the diadem from his wrist and held it up. It was still 
hot, blackened with soot, but as he 
looked at it clos
ely he was just 
able to make out the tiny words etched upon it: 
Wit beyond mea-
sure is mans greatest treasure
. A bloodlike substance, da
rk and tarry, seemed 
to be leaking from 
the diadem. Suddenly Harry felt the thing vibrate violently, then break apart in his hands, and as it
 did so, he thought he heard the 
faintest, most distant scream of 
pain, echoing not from the grounds 
or the castle, but from the thing 
that had just fragmented in his 
fingers. 
It must have been Fiendfyre! 
whimpered Hermione, her eyes 
on the broken pieces. Sorry? 
Fiendfyre  cursed fire  its one of the substances that destroy 
Horcruxes, but I would never, ever ha
ve dared use it, its so danger-
ous  how did Crabbe know how to  ? Mustve learned from the Ca
rrows, said Harry grimly. 
Shame he wasnt co
ncentrating when they
 mentioned how to 
stop it, really, said Ron, whose hair, like Hermiones, was singed, 

and whose face was blackened. If he 
hadnt tried to kill us all, Id 
be quite sorry he was dead. 
But dont you realize? whispered Hermione. This means, if we 
can just get the snake  
But she broke off as yells and shouts and the unmistakable noises 
of dueling filled the corridor. Ha
rry looked around and his heart 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-ONE  636  seemed to fail: Death Eaters ha
d penetrated Hogwarts. Fred and 
Percy had just backed into view, both of them dueling masked and 

hooded men. Harry, Ron, and Hermione ran fo
rward to help: Jets of light 
flew in every direction and the ma
n dueling Percy backed off, fast: 
Then his hood slipped and they saw 
a high forehead and streaked 
hair  Hello, Minister! bellowed Percy,
 sending a neat 
jinx straight 
at Thicknesse, who drop
ped his wand and claw
ed at the front of 
his robes, apparently in awful 
discomfort. Did I mention Im 
resigning? Youre joking, Perce! shouted Fred as the Death Eater he was 
battling collapsed under the weight of three separate Stunning 
Spells. Thicknesse had fallen to th
e ground with tiny spikes erupt-
ing all over him; he se
emed to be turning into some form of sea 
urchin. Fred looked 
at Percy with glee. 
You actually 
are joking, Perce. . . . I don
t think Ive heard you 
joke since you were  
The air exploded. They had been 
grouped together, Harry, Ron, 
Hermione, Fred, and Percy, the tw
o Death Eaters at their feet, one 
Stunned, the other Transfigured; and in that fragment of a moment, 
when danger seemed temporarily at 
bay, the world was rent apart. 
Harry felt himself flying
 through the air, an
d all he could do was 
hold as tightly as possible to that
 thin stick of wood that was his 
one and only weapon, and shield 
his head in his 
arms: He heard 
the screams and yells of his companions without a hope of knowing 
what had happen
ed to them  And then the world resolved itself
 into pain and semidarkness: 
He was half buried in the wreckage of a corridor that had been 
THE  BATTLE  OF HOGWARTS  637  subjected to a terrible attack. Cold 
air told him that the side of the 
castle had been blown away, and ho
t stickiness on his cheek told 
him that he was bleeding copiously. Then he heard a terrible cry that 
pulled at his insides, that expressed agony of a kind neither flame 
nor curse could cause, and he sto
od up, swaying, more frightened 
than he had been that day, more 
frightened, perhaps, than he had 
been in his life. . . . And Hermione was struggling to 
her feet in the wreckage, and 
three redheaded men were grouped 
on the ground where the wall 
had blasted apart. Harry grabbed He
rmiones hand as they staggered 
and stumbled over stone and wood. 
No  no  no! someone was 
shouting. No! Fred! No! 
And Percy was shaking his brother,
 and Ron was kneeling beside 
them, and Freds eyes stared with
out seeing, the ghost of his last 
laugh still etched
 upon his face. 
C H A P T E R  T H I R T Y - T W O   638  THE ELDER WAND 
   he world had ended, so why had the battle not ceased, the 
castle fallen silent in horror,
 and every combatant laid down 
their arms? Harrys mind was in free 
fall, spinning out of control, 
unable to grasp the impossibility
, because Fred Weasley could not 
be dead, the evidence of all 
his senses must be lying  
And then a body fell past the hole
 blown into the side of the 
school, and curses flew in at th
em from the darkness, hitting the 
wall behind their heads. 
Get down! Harry shouted, as more curses flew through the 
night: He and Ron had both grabbed Hermione and pulled her 
to the floor, but Percy lay across Fr
eds body, shielding it from fur-
ther harm, and when Harry shouted, 
Percy, come on, weve got to 
move! he shook his head. 
Percy! Harry saw tear tracks st
reaking the grime coating Rons face as he seized his elder brothe
rs shoulders and pu
lled, but Percy  
 T THE  ELDER  WAND  639  would not budge. Percy, you can
t do anything for him! Were go-
ing to  
Hermione screamed, and Harry, 
turning, did not need to ask 
why. A monstrous spider the size of
 a small car was trying to climb 
through the huge hole in the wa
ll: One of Aragogs descendants 
had joined the fight. 
Ron and Harry shouted together; their spells collided and the 
monster was blown backward, its legs jerking horribly, and vanished 
into the darkness. 
It brought friends! Harry called to the others, glancing over the 
edge of the castle through the hole 
in the wall the curses had blasted: 
More giant spiders were climbing th
e side of the building, liberated 
from the Forbidden Forest, into w
hich the Death Eaters must have 
penetrated. Harry fire
d Stunning Spells down upon them, knock-
ing the lead monster into its fellows
, so that they rolled back down 
the building and out of sight. Then more curses came soaring over 
Harrys head, so close he felt th
e force of them blow his hair. 
Lets move, NOW! 
Pushing Hermione ahead of him with Ron, Harry stooped to 
seize Freds body under the armpit
s. Percy, realizing what Harry 
was trying to do, stopped clinging 
to the body and helped; together, 
crouching low to avoid the curses fl
ying at them from the grounds, 
they hauled Fred out of the way. Here, said Harry, and they plac
ed him in a niche where a suit 
of armor had stood earlier. He could 
not bear to look at Fred a sec-
ond longer than he had to, and afte
r making sure that the body was 
well hidden, he took off after Ron and Hermione. Malfoy and Goyle 
had vanished, but at the end of the corridor, which was now full  

 CHAPTER  THIRTY-TWO  640  of dust and falling masonry, glass long gone from the windows, he 
saw many people running backward and forward, whether friends 

or foes he could not tell. Rounding the corner, Percy let out a bull-
like roar: ROOKWOOD! and sprint
ed off in the direction of a 
tall man, who was pursuing
 a couple of students. 
Harry, in here! Hermione screamed. 
She had pulled Ron behind a tapestry: They seemed to be wres-
tling together, and for one mad second Harry thought that they were 
embracing again; then he saw that 
Hermione was trying to restrain 
Ron, to stop him running after Percy. 
Listen to me  
LISTEN, RON
! I wanna help  I wanna kill Death Eaters  
His face was contorted, smeared 
with dust and smoke, and he 
was shaking with rage and grief. 
Ron, were the only ones who can end it! Please  Ron  we 
need the snake, weve got to ki
ll the snake! said Hermione. But Harry knew how Ron felt: Pu
rsuing another Horcrux could 
not bring the satisfaction of reveng
e; he too wanted to fight, to 
punish them, the people who had killed Fred, and he wanted to 
find the other Weasleys, and above 
all make sure, make quite sure, 
that Ginny was not  but he could 
not permit that idea to form 
in his mind  
We will fight! Hermione said. Well have to, to reach the snake! 
But lets not lose sight now of what were supposed to be d-doing! 
Were the only ones who can end it! 
She was crying too, and she wiped 
her face on her torn and singed 
sleeve as she spoke, but she took great heaving breaths to calm herself 
as, still keeping a tight hold on Ron, she turned to Harry. 
 THE  ELDER  WAND  641  You need to find out where Vold
emort is, because hell have the 
snake with him, wont he? Do it, Harry  look inside him! 
Why was it so easy? Because his 
scar had been burning for hours, 
yearning to show him Voldemorts 
thoughts? He closed his eyes on 
her command, and at once, the sc
reams and the bangs and all the 
discordant sounds of the battle 
were drowned until they became 
distant, as though he stood far, far away from them. . . . He was standing in the middle of 
a desolate but strangely familiar 
room, with peeling paper on the 
walls and all the windows boarded 
except for one. The sounds of the 
assault on the castle were muffled 
and distant. The single unblocked wi
ndow revealed distant bursts of 
light where the castle stood, but insi
de the room it was dark except 
for a solitary oil lamp. He was rolling his wand between 
his fingers, watching it, his 
thoughts on the room in the castle, 
the secret room only he had ever 
found, the room, like the Chamber,
 that you had to be clever and 
cunning and inquisitive to discover
. . . . He was confident that the 
boy would not find the diadem . 
. . although Dumbledores puppet 
had come much farther than he had ever expected . . . too far. . . . 
My Lord, said a voice, desperat
e and cracked. He turned: There 
was Lucius Malfoy sitting in th
e darkest corner, ragged and still bearing the marks of the punishment
 he had received after the boys 
last escape. One of his eyes remain
ed closed and puffy. My Lord . . . 
please . . . my son . . . If your son is dead, Lucius, it is
 not my fault. He did not come 
and join me, like the rest of the 
Slytherins. Perhaps he has decided 
to befriend Harry Potter? 
No  never, whispered Malfoy.  CHAPTER  THIRTY-TWO  642  You must hope not. 
Arent  arent you afraid, my Lo
rd, that Potter might die at an-
other hand but yours? asked Malf
oy, his voice shaking. Wouldnt 
it be . . . forgive me . . . more pr
udent to call off this battle, enter 
the castle, and seek him y-yourself? 
Do not pretend, Lucius. You wish th
e battle to ceas
e so that you 
can discover what has happened to your
 son. And I do not need to seek 
Potter. Before the night is out, Potter will have come to find me. 
Voldemort dropped his gaze once mo
re to the wand in his fingers. 
It troubled him . . . and those thin
gs that troubled Lord Voldemort 
needed to be rearranged. . . . Go and fetch Snape. Snape, m-my Lord? 
Snape. Now. I need him. There is
 a  service  I require from 
him. Go. 
Frightened, stumbling a little th
rough the gloom, Lucius left 
the room. Voldemort continued to 
stand there, twirling the wand 
between his fingers,
 staring at it. It is the only way, Nagini, he whispered, and he looked around, 
and there was the great thick snake,
 now suspended in midair, twist-
ing gracefully within the enchanted
, protected space he had made 
for her, a starry, transparent sp
here somewhere between glittering 
cage and tank. 
With a gasp, Harry pulled back an
d opened his eyes; at the same 
moment his ears were assaulted with the screeches and cries, the 
smashes and bangs of battle. 
Hes in the Shrieking Shack. The snakes with him, its got some 
sort of magical protection around it. Hes just sent Lucius Malfoy 

to find Snape. 
THE  ELDER  WAND  643  Voldemorts sitting in the Shrieking Shack? said Hermione, 
outraged. Hes not  hes not even 
fighting
? He doesnt think he needs to fight, said Harry. He thinks Im 
going to go to him. 
But why? 
He knows Im after Horcruxes  
hes keeping Nagini close be-
side him  obviously Im going to have to go to him to get near 

the thing  Right, said Ron, squaring his shoulders. So you cant go, thats 
what he wants, what hes expectin
g. You stay here and look after 
Hermione, and Ill go and get it  
Harry cut across Ron. 
You two stay here, Ill go unde
r the Cloak and Ill be back as 
soon as I  No, said Hermione, it makes mu
ch more sense if I take the 
Cloak and  
Dont even think about it
, Ron snarled at her. 
Before Hermione could get farther than Ron, Im just as capa-
ble  the tapestry at the top of 
the staircase on which they stood 
was ripped open. POTTER! 
Two masked Death Eaters stood th
ere, but even before their 
wands were fully raised, Hermione shouted, 
Glisseo
! The stairs beneath their feet flatt
ened into a chute and she, Harry, 
and Ron hurtled down it, unable to 
control their speed but so fast 
that the Death Eaters Stunning Sp
ells flew far over their heads. 
They shot through the concealing 
tapestry at the bottom and spun 
onto the floor, hitting the opposite wall. Duro! cried Hermione, pointing her wand at the tapestry, and 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-TWO  644  there were two loud, sickening crun
ches as the tapestry turned to 
stone and the Death Eaters pursui
ng them crumpled against it. 
Get back! shouted Ron, and 
he, Harry, and Hermione flat-
tened themselves against a door as 
a herd of galloping desks thun-
dered past, shepherded by a spri
nting Professor McGonagall. She appeared not to notice them: Her hair had come down and there 
was a gash on her cheek. As she turned the corner, they heard her 

scream, CHARGE! 
Harry, you get the Cloak on, said Hermione. Never mind 
us  
But he threw it over all three of 
them; large though they were, he 
doubted anyone would see their di
sembodied feet through the dust 
that clogged the air, the falling stone, 
the shimmer of spells. 
They ran down the next staircas
e and found themselves in a cor-
ridor full of duelers. The portraits on either side of the fighters were 

crammed with figures screaming advice and encouragement, while 
Death Eaters, both masked and unmasked, dueled students and 
teachers. Dean had won himself a wand, for he was face-to-face 
with Dolohov, Parvati with Travers. Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
raised their wands at once, ready 
to strike, but the duelers were 
weaving and darting around so much
 that there was a strong likeli-
hood of hurting one of their own si
de if they cast curses. Even as 
they stood braced, looking for the opportunity to act, there came a 

great Wheeeeeeeeeeee! and, looking up, Harry saw Peeves zooming 
over them, dropping Snargaluff 
pods down onto the Death Eaters, 
whose heads were suddenly engulfed in wriggling green tubers like 
fat worms. 
Argh! 

A fistful of tubers had hit the 
Cloak over Rons head; the slimy 
THE  ELDER  WAND  645  green roots were suspended improbably in midair as Ron tried to 
shake them loose. 
Someones invisible there! shouted a masked Death Eater, 
pointing. Dean made the most of the De
ath Eaters momentary distrac-
tion, knocking him out with a Stunning Spell; Dolohov attempted 
to retaliate and Parvati shot a Body-Bind Curse at him. 
LETS GO! Harry yelled, and he, Ron, and Hermione gath-
ered the Cloak tightly around th
emselves and pelted, heads down, 
through the midst of the fighters, slipping a little in pools of Snar-

galuff juice, toward the top of the 
marble staircase into the entrance 
hall. 
Im Draco Malfoy, Im Draco, Im on your side! 
Draco was on the upper landing, 
pleading with another masked 
Death Eater. Harry St
unned the Death Eater as they passed: Mal-
foy looked around, beaming, for his savior, and Ron punched him 
from under the Cloak. Malfoy fe
ll backward on top of the Death 
Eater, his mouth bleeding, utterly bemused. 
And thats the second time we
ve saved your life tonight, you 
two-faced bastard! Ron yelled. 
There were more duelers all over 
the stairs and in the hall, Death 
Eaters everywhere Harry looked: 
Yaxley, close to the front doors, 
in combat with Flitwi
ck, a masked Death Eater dueling Kingsley 
right beside them. Students ran in 
every direction, some carrying or 
dragging injured friends. Harry di
rected a Stunning Spell toward 
the masked Death Eater; it misse
d but nearly hit Neville, who had 
emerged from nowhere brandishing armfuls of Venomous Tentac-
ula, which looped itself happily 
around the nearest Death Eater and 
began reeling him in. CHAPTER  THIRTY-TWO  646  Harry, Ron, and Hermione sped down the marble staircase: Glass 
shattered to their left, and the Slyt
herin hourglass that had recorded 
House points spilled its emeralds ev
erywhere, so that people slipped 
and staggered as they ran. Two bodies fell from the balcony over-
head as they reached the ground, 
and a gray blur 
that Harry took 
for an animal sped four-legged acro
ss the hall to sink its teeth into 
one of the fallen. 
NO! shrieked Hermione, and wi
th a deafening blast from her 
wand, Fenrir Greyback was thrown 
backward from the feebly stir-
ring body of Lavender Brown. 
He hit the marble banisters and 
struggled to return to his feet. Th
en, with a bright white flash and 
a crack, a crystal ball fell on to
p of his head, and he crumpled to 
the ground and did not move. 
I have more! shrieked Profe
ssor Trelawney from over the ban-
isters. More for any wh
o want them! Here  And with a movement like a tenn
is serve, she heaved another 
enormous crystal sphere from her 
bag, waved her wand through the 
air, and caused the ball to speed 
across the hall and smash through 
a window. At the same moment
, the heavy wooden front doors 
burst open, and more of the gigantic spiders forced their way into 

the entrance hall. Screams of terror rent the air: Th
e fighters scattered, Death Eat-
ers and Hogwartians alike, and red an
d green jets of light flew into 
the midst of the oncoming monste
rs, which shuddered and reared, more terrifying than ever. 
How do we get out? yelled Ro
n over all the screaming, but 
before either Harry or Hermione 
could answer they were bowled 
aside: Hagrid had come thunderi
ng down the stairs, brandishing 
his flowery pink umbrella. 
THE  ELDER  WAND  647  Dont hurt em, dont 
hurt em! he yelled. 
HAGRID, NO! 
Harry forgot everything else: He 
sprinted out from under the 
Cloak, running bent double to av
oid the curses illuminating the 
whole hall. 
HAGRID, COME BACK! But he was not even halfway to 
Hagrid when he saw it happen: 
Hagrid vanished amongst the spiders, and with a great scurrying, 
a foul swarming movement, they 
retreated under the onslaught of 
spells, Hagrid buried in their midst. 
HAGRID! Harry heard someone calling his own name, whether friend or 
foe he did not care: He was sprint
ing down the front steps into the 
dark grounds, and the spiders were
 swarming away with their prey, 
and he could see nothing of Hagrid
 at all. HAGRID! He thought he could make out 
an enormous arm waving from 
the midst of the spider swarm, but as he made to chase after them, 
his way was impeded by a monu
mental foot, which swung down 
out of the darkness and made the ground on which he stood shud-

der. He looked up: A giant stoo
d before him, twenty feet high, 
its head hidden in shadow, nothing but its treelike, hairy shins 
illuminated by light from the cast
le doors. With one brutal, fluid 
movement, it smashed a massive fi
st through an upper window, and 
glass rained down upon Harry, fo
rcing him back under the shelter 
of the doorway. Oh my  ! shrieked Hermione, 
as she and Ron caught up with 
Harry and gazed upward at the gian
t now trying to seize people 
through the window above. CHAPTER  THIRTY-TWO  648  DONT! Ron yelled, grabbing He
rmiones hand as she raised 
her wand. Stun him and hell crush half the castle  
HAGGER? 
Grawp came lurching around the corner of the castle; only now 
did Harry realize that 
Grawp was, indeed, an undersized giant. 
The gargantuan monster trying to 
crush people on the upper floors 
looked around and let out a roar. 
The stone steps trembled as he 
stomped toward his smaller kin, 
and Grawps lopsided mouth fell 
open, showing yellow, half-brick-siz
ed teeth; and then they launched 
themselves at each other wi
th the savagery of lions. RUN! Harry roared; the night was 
full of hideous 
yells and blows 
as the giants wrestled, and he seiz
ed Hermiones hand
 and tore down 
the steps into the grounds, Ron bringing up the rear. Harry had not 
lost hope of finding and 
saving Hagrid; he ran so
 fast that they were 
halfway toward the forest before they were brought up short again. 
The air around them had frozen: 
Harrys breath caught and so-
lidified in his chest. Shapes mo
ved out in the darkness, swirling 
figures of concentrated blackness, moving in a great wave toward 
the castle, their faces hooded and their breath rattling. . . . Ron and Hermione closed in beside 
him as the sounds of fighting 
behind them grew suddenly muted, 
deadened, because a silence only 
dementors could bring was falling thickly through the night, and 
Fred was gone, and Hagrid was sure
ly dying or already dead. . . . 
Come on, Harry! said Hermiones
 voice from a very long way 
away. Patronuses, Harry, come on! 
He raised his wand, but a dull hopelessness was spreading through 
him: How many more lay dead that 
he did not yet know about; he 
felt as though his soul had al
ready half left his body. . . . 
HARRY, COME ON! 
screamed Hermione. 
THE  ELDER  WAND  649  A hundred dementors were advancing, gliding toward them, 
sucking their way closer to Harrys despair, which was like a prom-

ise of a feast. . . . He saw Rons silver terrier burst into the air, flicker feebly, and ex-
pire; he saw Hermiones otter twist in midair and fade; and his own 
wand trembled in his hand, and he
 almost welcomed the oncoming 
oblivion, the promise of nothing, of no feeling. . . . 
And then a silver hare, a boar, an
d a fox soared past Harry, Ron, 
and Hermiones heads: The dementor
s fell back before the crea-
tures approach. Three more people
 had arrived out of the darkness 
to stand beside them, their wands outstretched, continuing to cast 
their Patronuses: Luna, Ernie, and Seamus. 
Thats right, said Luna encouragin
gly, as if they were back in 
the Room of Requirement and this
 was simply spell practice for 
the D.A. Thats right, Harry . . . come on, think of something 

happy. . . . 
Something happy? he said, his voice cracked. 
Were all still here, she whispe
red, were still fighting. Come 
on, now. . . . There was a silver spark, then a 
wavering light, and then, with 
the greatest effort it had ever cost
 him, the stag burst from the end 
of Harrys wand. It cantered forw
ard, and now the dementors scat-
tered in earnest, and immediately the night was mild again, but the 

sounds of the surrounding batt
le were loud in his ears. 
Cant thank you enough, said 
Ron shakily, turning to Luna, 
Ernie, and Seamus, you just saved  
With a roar and an earth-quaking tremor, another giant came 
lurching out of the darkness from 
the direction of the forest, bran-
dishing a club taller than any of them. CHAPTER  THIRTY-TWO  650  RUN! Harry shouted again, but 
the others needed no telling: 
They all scattered, and not a seco
nd too soon, for next moment the 
creatures vast foot had fallen ex
actly where they had been standing. 
Harry looked round: Ron and Herm
ione were following him, but 
the other three had vanished back into the battle. 
Lets get out of range! yelled Ro
n as the giant swun
g its club again 
and its bellows echoed through th
e night, across the grounds where 
bursts of red and green light continued to illuminate the darkness. 
The Whomping Willow, said Harry, go! 
Somehow he walled it all up in
 his mind, crammed it into a 
small space into which he could not look now: Thoughts of Fred 
and Hagrid, and his terror for all th
e people he loved, scattered in 
and outside the castle, 
must all wait, because they had to run, had 
to reach the snake and Voldemort, 
because that was, as Hermione 
said, the only way to end it  He sprinted, half believing he co
uld outdistance death itself, ig-noring the jets of light flying 
in the darkness all around him, and 
the sound of the lake crashing like
 the sea, and the creaking of the 
Forbidden Forest though the nigh
t was windless; through grounds 
that seemed themselves to have rise
n in rebellion, he ran faster than 
he had ever moved in his life, and 
it was he who saw the great tree 
first, the Willow that protected the secret at its roots with whiplike, 
slashing branches. 
Panting and gasping, Harry slowed
 down, skirting the Willows 
swiping branches, peering through the darkness toward its thick 
trunk, trying to see the single knot
 in the bark of the old tree that 
would paralyze it. Ron and Herm
ione caught up, Hermione so out 
of breath she could not speak. 

 THE  ELDER  WAND  651  How  howre we going to get in? panted Ron. I can  see 
the place  if we just ha
d  Crookshanks again  Crookshanks? wheezed Hermione, bent double, clutching her 
chest. 
Are you a wizard, or what
? Oh  right  yeah  
Ron looked around, then directed
 his wand at a twig on the 
ground and said, 
Wingardium Leviosa
! The twig flew up from 
the ground, spun through the air as
 if caught by a gust of wind, 
then zoomed directly at the trunk through the Willows ominously 
swaying branches. It jabbed at a pl
ace near the roots, and at once, 
the writhing tree became still. 
Perfect! panted Hermione. 
Wait. 
For one teetering second, while the crashes and booms of the 
battle filled the air, Harry hesitate
d. Voldemort wanted him to do 
this, wanted him to come. . . . 
Was he leading Ron and Hermione 
into a trap? 
But then the reality seemed to cl
ose upon him, cruel and plain: 
The only way forward was to kill th
e snake, and the snake was where 
Voldemort was, and Voldemort was at
 the end of this tunnel. . . . Harry, were coming, just get in
 there! said Ron, pushing him 
forward. 
Harry wriggled into the earthy pa
ssage hidden in the trees roots. 
It was a much tighter squeeze than it had been the last time they had 
entered it. The tunnel was low-ceil
inged: They had had to double 
up to move through it
 nearly four years previously; now there was 
nothing for it but to cr
awl. Harry went first, his wand illuminated, 
expecting at any moment to meet
 barriers, but none came. They  
 CHAPTER  THIRTY-TWO  652  moved in silence, Harrys gaze fi
xed upon the swinging beam of 
the wand held in his fist. 
At last the tunnel began to slop
e upward and Harry saw a sliver 
of light ahead. Hermione tugged at his ankle. 
The Cloak! she whispered. Put the Cloak on! 
He groped behind him and she forced the bundle of slippery 
cloth into his free hand. With difficulty he dragged it over himself, 

murmured, 
Nox, extinguishing his wandlight, and continued on 
his hands and knees, as silently as possible, all his senses straining, 
expecting every second to be discov
ered, to hear a cold clear voice, 
see a flash of green light. 
And then he heard voices coming from the room directly ahead of 
them, only slightly muffled by the 
fact that the opening at the end 
of the tunnel had been blocked up by 
what looked like an old crate. 
Hardly daring to breathe, Harry 
edged right up to the opening and 
peered through a tiny gap left between crate and wall. 
The room beyond was dimly lit, bu
t he could see Nagini, swirling 
and coiling like a serpent underw
ater, safe in her enchanted, starry 
sphere, which floated unsupported in
 midair. He could see the edge 
of a table, and a long-fingered white hand toying with a wand. Then 

Snape spoke, and Harrys heart lurched: Snape was inches away from 
where he crouched, hidden. 
. . . my Lord, their resi
stance is crumbling  
 and it is doing so without your help, said Voldemort in his 
high, clear voice. Skill
ed wizard though you are, Severus, I do not 
think you will make much
 difference now. We are almost there . . . 
almost. Let me find the boy. Let me br
ing you Potter. I know I can find 
him, my Lord. Please. 
THE  ELDER  WAND  653  Snape strode past the gap, and 
Harry drew back a little, keeping 
his eyes fixed upon Nagini, wond
ering whether there was any spell 
that might penetrate the protection
 surrounding her, but he could 
not think of anything. One failed 
attempt, and he would give away 
his position. . . . 
Voldemort stood up. Harry could see him now, see the red eyes, 
the flattened, serpentine face, the 
pallor of him gleaming slightly 
in the semidarkness. 
I have a problem, Severus, said Voldemort softly. 
My Lord? said Snape. 

Voldemort raised the Elder Wand, 
holding it as delicately and 
precisely as a conductors baton. 
Why doesnt it work for me, Severus? 
In the silence Harry imagined he
 could hear the snake hissing 
slightly as it coiled and uncoiled
  or was it Voldemorts sibilant 
sigh lingering on the air? 
My  my Lord? said Snape bl
ankly. I do not understand. 
You  you have performed extraord
inary magic with that wand. 
No, said Voldemort. I have 
performed my usual magic. I am 
extraordinary, but this wand . . . 
no. It has not revealed the wonders 
it has promised. I feel 
no difference between this wand and the one 
I procured from Ollivander all those years ago. 
Voldemorts tone was musing, calm
, but Harrys scar had begun 
to throb and pulse: Pain was building in his forehead, and he could 
feel that controlled sense of fu
ry building inside Voldemort. No difference, said Voldemort again. Snape did not speak. Harry could not see his face: He wondered 
whether Snape sensed danger, was t
rying to find the right words to 
reassure his master. 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-TWO  654  Voldemort started to move arou
nd the room: Harry lost sight 
of him for seconds as he prowled, 
speaking in that same measured 
voice, while the pain an
d fury mounted in Harry. I have thought long and hard, Severus. . . . Do you know why 
I have called you back from the battle? 
And for a moment Harry saw Snapes 
profile: His eyes were fixed 
upon the coiling snake 
in its enchanted cage. No, my Lord, but I beg you will let me return. Let me find 
Potter. You sound like Lucius. Neither of you understands Potter as I 
do. He does not need finding. Potte
r will come to me. I know his 
weakness, you see, his one great 
flaw. He will hate watching the 
others struck down around him, know
ing that it is for him that it 
happens. He will want to stop 
it at any cost. He will come. 
But my Lord, he might be killed
 accidentally by
 one other than 
yourself  My instructions to my Death Ea
ters have been perfectly clear. 
Capture Potter. Kill his friends 
 the more, the better  but do 
not kill him. 
But it is of you that I wished to
 speak, Severus, not Harry Potter. 
You have been very valuable
 to me. Very valuable. My Lord knows I seek only to
 serve him. But  let me go 
and find the boy, my Lord. Let 
me bring him to you. I know I 
can  
I have told you, no! said Vo
ldemort, and Harry caught the glint 
of red in his eyes as he turned again, and the swishing of his cloak 
was like the slithering of a snake, and he felt Voldemorts impatience 
in his burning scar. My concern at the moment, Severus, is what 

will happen when I finally meet the boy! 
THE  ELDER  WAND  655  My Lord, there can be no question, surely  ? 
 but there 
is a question, Severus. There is. Voldemort halted, and Harry could 
see him plainly again as he 
slid the Elder Wand through his white fingers, staring at Snape. Why did both the wands I have 
used fail when directed at Harry 
Potter? I  I cannot answer
 that, my Lord. 
Cant you? 
The stab of rage felt like a sp
ike driven through Harrys head: He forced his own fist into his mouth 
to stop himself from crying out 
in pain. He closed his eyes, and 
suddenly he was Voldemort, look-
ing into Snapes pale face. 
My wand of yew did everything of which I asked it, Severus, 
except to kill Harry Potter. Twice it 
failed. Ollivander told me under 
torture of the twin cores, told me
 to take anothers wand. I did so, 
but Luciuss wand shattere
d upon meeting Potters. 
I  I have no expl
anation, my Lord. Snape was not looking at Voldemort 
now. His dark eyes were still 
fixed upon the coiling serpen
t in its protective sphere. 
I sought a third wand, Severus. The Elder Wand, the Wand of 
Destiny, the Deathstick. 
I took it from its prev
ious master. I took it 
from the grave of Albus Dumbledore. 
And now Snape looked at Voldemort, and Snapes face was like a 
death mask. It was marble white and 
so still that when he spoke, it 
was a shock to see that anyone
 lived behind the blank eyes. My Lord  let me go to the boy  
All this long night, when I am on the brink of victory, I have 
sat here, said Voldemort, his voice barely louder than a whisper, 

wondering, wondering, why the Elder Wand refuses to be what it 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-TWO  656  ought to be, refuses to perform as legend says it must perform for 
its rightful owner . . . and I think I have 
the answer. 
Snape did not speak. 
Perhaps you already know it? Yo
u are a clever man, after all, 
Severus. You have been a good and 
faithful servant, and I regret 
what must happen. 
My Lord  

The Elder Wand cannot serve me properly, Severus, because I 
am not its true master. The Elder 
Wand belongs to the wizard who 
killed its last owner. You killed 
Albus Dumbledore. While you live, 
Severus, the Elder Wand 
cannot be truly mine. 
My Lord! Snape protes
ted, raising his wand. 
It cannot be any other way, said 
Voldemort. I must master the 
wand, Severus. Master the wand, 
and I master Potter at last. And Voldemort swiped the air with
 the Elder Wand. It did noth-
ing to Snape, who for a split seco
nd seemed to th
ink he had been 
reprieved: But then Voldemorts int
ention became clear. The snakes 
cage was rolling through the air,
 and before Snape could do any-
thing more than yell, it had encased him, head and shoulders, and 
Voldemort spoke in Parseltongue. 
Kill. There was a terrible scream. Harry saw Snapes face losing the 
little color it had left; it whitened 
as his black eyes widened, as the 
snakes fangs pierced his neck, as 
he failed to push the enchanted 
cage off himself, as hi
s knees gave way and he fell to the floor. 
I regret it, said Voldemort coldly. 
He turned away; there was no sadn
ess in him, no remorse. It was 
time to leave this shack and take 
charge, with a wand that would  
 THE  ELDER  WAND  657  now do his full bidding. He pointed it
 at the starry cage holding the 
snake, which drifted upward, off Sn
ape, who fell sideways onto the 
floor, blood gushing from the woun
ds in his neck. Voldemort swept 
from the room without a backward
 glance, and the great serpent 
floated after him in its huge protective sphere. 
Back in the tunnel and his own 
mind, Harry opened his eyes: He 
had drawn blood biting down on his 
knuckles in the effort not to 
shout out. Now he was looking th
rough the tiny crack between crate 
and wall, watching a foot in a bl
ack boot trembling on the floor. 
Harry! breathed Hermione behi
nd him, but he had already 
pointed his wand at the crate blocki
ng his view. It lifted an inch 
into the air and drifted sideways sil
ently. As quietly as he could, he 
pulled himself up into the room. 
He did not know why he was doi
ng it, why he was approaching 
the dying man: He did not know 
what he felt as he saw Snapes 
white face, and the fingers trying to staunch the bloody wound at 
his neck. Harry took off the Invi
sibility Cloak and looked down 
upon the man he hated, whose wid
ening black eyes found Harry as 
he tried to speak. Harry bent over
 him, and Snape seized the front 
of his robes and 
pulled him close. A terrible rasping, gurgling no
ise issued from Snapes throat. 
Take . . . it. . . . Take . . . it. . . . Something more than blood was 
leaking from Snape. Silvery 
blue, neither gas nor liquid, it gu
shed from his mouth and his ears 
and his eyes, and Harry knew what 
it was, but did not know what 
to do  A flask, conjured from thin air, 
was thrust into his shaking hands 
by Hermione. Harry lifted the silv
ery substance into it with his  
 CHAPTER  THIRTY-TWO  658  wand. When the flask was full to
 the brim, and Snape looked as 
though there was no blood left in
 him, his grip on Harrys robes 
slackened. Look . . . at . . . me. 
. . . he whispered. The green eyes found the black, 
but after a second, something in 
the depths of the dark pair seemed to vanish, leaving them fixed, 
blank, and empty. The hand ho
lding Harry thudded to the floor, 
and Snape moved no more. 
C H A P T E R  T H I R T Y - T H R E E   659  THE PRINCE
S TALE 
  arry remained kneeling at Snapes side, simply staring 
down at him, until quite suddenly a high, cold voice spoke 
so close to them that Harry jumped 
to his feet, the flask gripped tightly 
in his hands, thinking that Vo
ldemort had reentered the room. 
Voldemorts voice reverberated from the walls and floor, and 
Harry realized that he was talking 
to Hogwarts and to all the sur-
rounding area, that th
e residents of Hogsmeade and all those still 
fighting in the castle would hear hi
m as clearly as if he stood beside 
them, his breath on the back of
 their necks, a deathblow away. 
You have fought, said the high, cold voice, valiantly. Lord Vol-
demort knows how to value bravery. 
Yet you have sustained heavy losses. If you continue to resist me, 
you will all die, one by one. I do no
t wish this to happen. Every drop 
of magical blood spilled is a loss and a waste. Lord Voldemort is merciful. I command my forces to retreat 
immediately. H CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE  660  You have one hour. Dispose of 
your dead with dignity. Treat 
your injured. 
I speak now, Harry Potter, direct
ly to you. You have permitted 
your friends to die for you rather than face me yourself. I shall wait 
for one hour in the Forbidden Fore
st. If, at the end of that hour, 
you have not come to me, have not given yourself up, then battle 
recommences. This time, I shall enter
 the fray myself, Harry Potter, 
and I shall find you, and I shall pu
nish every last man, woman, and 
child who has tried to concea
l you from me. One hour. 
Both Ron and Hermione shook th
eir heads frantically, looking 
at Harry. Dont listen to him, said Ron. 
Itll be all right, said Hermione
 wildly. Lets  lets get back 
to the castle, if hes gone to the fo
rest well need to think of a new 
plan  
She glanced at Snapes body, then 
hurried back to the tunnel en-
trance. Ron followed her. Harry gather
ed up the Invisibility Cloak, 
then looked down at Snape. He did 
not know what to feel, except 
shock at the way Snape had been 
killed, and the re
ason for which 
it had been done. . . . They crawled back through the 
tunnel, none of them talking, 
and Harry wondered whether Ron 
and Hermione could still hear 
Voldemort ringing in thei
r heads, as he could. 
You have permitted your friends to 
die for you rather than face me 
yourself. I shall wait for one hour in the Forbidden Forest.
 . . . 
One 
hour. . . . Small bundles seemed to litter the 
lawn at the front of the castle. 
It could only be an hour or so 
from dawn, yet it was pitch-black. 
The three of them hurried toward 
the stone steps. A lone clog, the 
THE  PRINCES  TALE  661  size of a small boat, lay abandoned in front of them. There was no 
other sign of Grawp or of his attacker. 
The castle was unnatura
lly silent. There were no flashes of light 
now, no bangs or screams or shouts
. The flagstones of the deserted 
entrance hall were stained with blood.
 Emeralds were still scattered 
all over the floor, along 
with pieces of marble and splintered wood. 
Part of the banisters 
had been blown away. Where is everyone?
 whispered Hermione. 
Ron led the way to the Great 
Hall. Harry stopped in the 
doorway. The House tables were gone an
d the room was crowded. The 
survivors stood in groups, their ar
ms around each 
others necks. The injured were being treated upon the raised platform by Madam 
Pomfrey and a group of helpers. Fi
renze was amongst the injured; his 
flank poured blood and he shook where he lay, unable to stand. The dead lay in a row in the mi
ddle of the Hall. Harry could not 
see Freds body, because his family surrounded him. George was 
kneeling at his head; Mrs. Weasley 
was lying across Freds chest, her 
body shaking, Mr. Weasley stroking her hair while tears cascaded 
down his cheeks. Without a word to Harry, Ro
n and Hermione walked away. 
Harry saw Hermione approach Ginny
, whose face was swollen and 
blotchy, and hug her. Ron joined Bill, Fleur, and Percy, who flung an 

arm around Rons shoulders. As Ginny and Hermione moved closer 
to the rest of the family, Harry ha
d a clear view of the bodies lying 
next to Fred: Remus and Tonks, pale
 and still and peaceful-looking, 
apparently asleep beneath the dark, enchanted ceiling. 
The Great Hall seemed to fly away, become smaller, shrink, 
as Harry reeled backward from the doorway. He could not draw 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE  662  breath. He could not bear to look at any of the other bodies, to see 
who else had died for him. He coul
d not bear to join the Weasleys, 
could not look into their eyes, wh
en if he had given himself up in 
the first place, Fred migh
t never have died. . . . 
He turned away and ran up the marble staircase. Lupin, Tonks . . . 
He yearned not to feel. 
. . . He wished he could rip out his heart, his 
innards, everything that was 
screaming inside him. . . . 
The castle was completely empty; 
even the ghosts seemed to have 
joined the mass mourning in th
e Great Hall. Harry ran without stopping, clutching the crystal flas
k of Snapes last thoughts, and 
he did not slow down until he reac
hed the stone gargoyle guarding 
the headmasters office. 
Password? 
Dumbledore! said Harry without 
thinking, because it was he 
whom he yearned to see, and to his surprise the gargoyle slid aside, 

revealing the spiral
 staircase behind. 
But when Harry burst into the circular office he found a change. 
The portraits that hung all around the walls were empty. Not a single 
headmaster or headmistress remained 
to see him; all, it seemed, had 
flitted away, charging through the pa
intings that lined the castle, so 
that they could have a clear view of what was going on. 
Harry glanced hopelessly at Dumb
ledores deserted frame, which 
hung directly behind the headmaster
s chair, then turned his back 
on it. The stone Pensieve lay in the cabinet where it had always been: 
Harry heaved it onto the desk an
d poured Snapes memories into 
the wide basin with its runic markings around the edge. To escape 
into someone elses head would be 
a blessed relief. . . . Nothing that 
even Snape had left him could be worse than his own thoughts. The 
memories swirled, silver white and strange, and without hesitating, 
THE  PRINCES  TALE  663  with a feeling of reckless abandonme
nt, as though this would as-
suage his torturing grief, Harry dived. 
He fell headlong into sunlight, 
and his feet found warm ground. 
When he straightened up, he saw that he was in a nearly deserted 
playground. A single huge chimney dominated the distant skyline. 
Two girls were swinging backward and forward, and a skinny boy 
was watching them from behind a 
clump of bushes. His black hair 
was overlong and his clothes were 
so mismatched that it looked 
deliberate: too short jeans, a shabby, overlarge coat that might have 
belonged to a grown man, an odd smocklike shirt. 
Harry moved closer to the boy. Snape looked no more than nine 
or ten years old, sallow, small, st
ringy. There was undisguised greed 
in his thin face as he watched the younger of the two girls swinging 
higher and higher than her sister. 
Lily, dont do it! shrieked the elder of the two. 
But the girl had let go of the swin
g at the very height of its arc 
and flown into the air, quite lite
rally flown, launched herself sky-
ward with a great shout of laught
er, and instead of crumpling on 
the playground asphalt, she soared 
like a trapeze artist through the 
air, staying up far too long
, landing far too lightly. 
Mummy told you not to! Petunia stopped her swing by dragging the heels of her sandals 
on the ground, making a crunchin
g, grinding sound, then leapt 
up, hands on hips. 
Mummy said you werent allowed, Lily! 
But Im fine, said Lily, still giggling. Tuney, look at this. Watch 
what I can do. Petunia glanced around. The playgr
ound was deserted apart from 
themselves and, though the girls 
did not know it, Snape. Lily had 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE  664  picked up a fallen flower from th
e bush behind which Snape lurked. 
Petunia advanced, evidently torn 
between curiosity and disapproval. 
Lily waited until Petunia was near enough to have a clear view, then 
held out her palm. The flower sat 
there, opening and closing its pet-
als, like some bizarr
e, many-lipped oyster. Stop it! shrieked Petunia. 
Its not hurting you, said Lily, 
but she closed her hand on the 
blossom and threw it back to the ground. 
Its not right, said Pe
tunia, but her eyes had 
followed the flowers 
flight to the ground and lingered 
upon it. How do you do it? she 
added, and there was definite longing in her voice. 
Its obvious, isnt it? Snape could no longer contain himself, 
but had jumped out from behind th
e bushes. Petunia shrieked and 
ran backward toward the swings, bu
t Lily, though clearly startled, 
remained where she was. Snape s
eemed to regret his appearance. 
A dull flush of color 
mounted the sallow cheek
s as he looked at 
Lily. Whats obvious? asked Lily. 
Snape had an air of nervous excite
ment. With a glance at the dis-
tant Petunia, now hovering beside the swings, he lowered his voice 

and said, I know what you are. 
What do you mean? 
Youre . . . youre a witch, whispered Snape. 
She looked affronted. 
Thats 
not a very nice thing to say to somebody! 
She turned, nose in the air, an
d marched off toward her sister. No! said Snape. He was high
ly colored now, and Harry won-
dered why he did not take off the ridiculously large coat, unless it 

was because he did not want to 
reveal the smock beneath it. He 
THE  PRINCES  TALE  665  flapped after the girls, looking lu
dicrously batlike, like his older 
self. The sisters considered him, united
 in disapproval, both holding 
on to one of the swing poles as though it was the safe place in tag. 
You are, said Snape to Lily. You 
are a witch. Ive been watch-
ing you for a while. But theres no
thing wrong with that. My mums 
one, and Im a wizard. Petunias laugh was 
like cold water. 
Wizard! she shrieked, her courage returned now that she had 
recovered from the shock of his unexpected appearance. 
I know 
who you are. Youre that Snape boy! They live down Spinners End 
by the river, she told Lily, and it was evident from her tone that 
she considered the address a poor
 recommendation. Why have you 
been spying on us? Havent been spying, said Snap
e, hot and uncomfortable and 
dirty-haired in the bright sunlight. Wouldnt spy on 
you, anyway, 
he added spitefully, 
youre
 a Muggle. 
Though Petunia evidently did not understand the word, she could 
hardly mistake the tone. 
Lily, come on, were leaving! she said shrilly. Lily obeyed her 
sister at once, glaring at Snape as
 she left. He st
ood watching them 
as they marched through the playground gate, and Harry, the only 
one left to observe him, recogniz
ed Snapes bitter disappointment, 
and understood that Snape had b
een planning this moment for a 
while, and that it had 
all gone wrong. . . . The scene dissolved, and before Ha
rry knew it, re-formed around 
him. He was now in a small thicket 
of trees. He could see a sunlit 
river glittering through their trunks. The shadows cast by the trees 

made a basin of cool green shade. Two children sat facing each other, 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE  666  cross-legged on the ground. Snape 
had removed his coat now; his 
odd smock looked less peculiar in the half light. . . . and the Ministry can puni
sh you if you do magic outside 
school, you get letters. 
But I 
have done magic outside school! Were all right. We havent got 
wands yet. They let you off when 
youre a kid and you cant help it. But once youre eleven, he nod-

ded importantly, and they start training you, then youve got to 
go careful. 
There was a little silence. Lily 
had picked up a fallen twig and 
twirled it in the air, and Harry kn
ew that she was imagining sparks 
trailing from it. Then she dropped the twig, leaned in toward the 
boy, and said, It 
is real, isnt it? Its not a 
joke? Petunia says youre 
lying to me. Petunia says there isnt a Hogwarts. It 
is real, isnt 
it? Its real for us, said Snape. Not for her. But well get the letter, 
you and me. 
Really? whispered Lily. 
Definitely, said Snape, and even with his poorly cut hair and 
his odd clothes, he struck an oddly 
impressive figure sprawled in 
front of her, brimful of co
nfidence in his destiny. 
And will it really come by owl? Lily whispered. 
Normally, said Snape. But youre Muggle-born, so someone 
from the school will have to come and explain to your parents. 
Does it make a differen
ce, being Muggle-born? 
Snape hesitated. His black eyes
, eager in the greenish gloom, 
moved over the pale fa
ce, the dark red hair. 
No, he said. It doesn
t make any difference. 
 THE  PRINCES  TALE  667  Good, said Lily, relaxing: It 
was clear that she had been 
worrying. Youve got loads of magic, said 
Snape. I saw that. All the time 
I was watching you . . . His voice trailed away; she was no
t listening, bu
t had stretched 
out on the leafy ground and was look
ing up at the canopy of leaves 
overhead. He watched her as greedily as he had watched her in the 

playground. 
How are things at your house? Lily asked. 
A little crease appeared between his eyes. 

Fine, he said. Theyre not arguing anymore? 
Oh yes, theyre arguing, said Sn
ape. He picked up a fistful of 
leaves and began tearing them apart, apparently unaware of what 
he was doing. But it wont be that long and Ill be gone. 
Doesnt your dad like magic? 
He doesnt like anything, much, said Snape. 
Severus? 
A little smile twisted Snapes mouth when she said his name. 
Yeah? 

Tell me about the dementors again. 
What dyou want to kn
ow about them for? If I use magic outside school  

They wouldnt give you to 
the dementors for that! Demen-
tors are for people who do really 
bad stuff. They guard the wizard 
prison, Azkaban. Youre not going 
to end up in Azkaban, youre 
too  He turned red again and shredded more leaves. Then a small  
 CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE  668  rustling noise behind Harry made him
 turn: Petunia, hiding behind 
a tree, had lost her footing. 
Tuney! said Lily, surprise and welcome in her voice, but Snape 
had jumped to his feet. 
Whos spying now? he sh
outed. What dyou want? Petunia was breathless, alarmed 
at being caught. Harry could see 
her struggling for something hurtful to say. 
What is that youre wearing, 
anyway? she said, pointing at 
Snapes chest. You
r mums blouse? 
There was a 
crack: A branch over Petunias head had fallen. Lily 
screamed: The branch caught Petunia on the shoulder, and she stag-
gered backward and 
burst into tears. 
Tuney! 
But Petunia was running away. Lily rounded on Snape. 
Did you make that happen? 

No. He looked both defiant and scared. 
You did! She was backin
g away from him. You 
did! You hurt her! 
No  no I didnt! But the lie did not convince Lily
: After one last
 burning look, 
she ran from the little thicket, o
ff after her sister, and Snape looked 
miserable and confused. . . . And the scene re-formed. Harry l
ooked around: He was on plat-
form nine and three-quarters, and 
Snape stood beside him, slightly 
hunched, next to a thin, sallow
-faced, sour-looking woman who greatly resembled him. Snape was star
ing at a family of four a short 
distance away. The two girls stood a little apart from their parents. 
Lily seemed to be plea
ding with her sister; 
Harry moved closer to 
listen. 
THE  PRINCES  TALE  669  . . . Im sorry, Tuney, 
Im sorry! Listen  She caught her sisters 
hand and held tight to it, even thou
gh Petunia tried to pull it away. 
Maybe once Im there  no, listen, Tuney! Maybe once Im there, 
Ill be able to go to Professor Dumbledore and persuade him to 
change his mind! 
I dont  want  to  go! sa
id Petunia, and she dragged her 
hand back out of her sisters grasp. You think I want to go to some 

stupid castle and learn to be a  a  Her pale eyes roved over the plat
form, over the cats mewling in 
their owners arms, over the owls fluttering and hooting at each 

other in cages, over the students, 
some already in their long black 
robes, loading trunks onto the scarlet steam engine or else greeting 
one another with glad cries after a summer apart. 
 you think I want to be a  a freak? 
Lilys eyes filled with tears as Petunia succeeded in tugging her 
hand away. Im not a freak, said Lily. T
hats a horrible thing to say. 
Thats where youre going, said 
Petunia with relish. A special 
school for freaks. You 
and that Snape boy . . 
. weirdos, thats what 
you two are. Its good youre bein
g separated from normal people. 
Its for our safety. 
Lily glanced toward her parents,
 who were looking around the 
platform with an air 
of wholehearted enjoyment, drinking in the 
scene. Then she looked back at her 
sister, and her voice was low and 
fierce. 
You didnt think it was such a 
freaks school when you wrote to 
the headmaster and begg
ed him to take you. Petunia turned scarlet. 

Beg? I didnt beg! 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE  670  I saw his reply. It was very kind. 
You shouldnt have read  wh
ispered Petunia, that was my 
private  how could you  ? 
Lily gave herself away by half
-glancing toward where Snape stood 
nearby. Petunia gasped. 
That boy found it! You and that 
boy have been sneaking in my 
room! No  not sneaking  Now Lily was on the defensive. Severus 
saw the envelope, and he couldnt
 believe a Muggle could have con-
tacted Hogwarts, thats all! He says there must be wizards working 

undercover in the postal se
rvice who take care of  
Apparently wizards poke their nose
s in everywhere! said Petunia, 
now as pale as she had been flushed. 
Freak! she spat at her sister, 
and she flounced off to wher
e her parents stood. . . . 
The scene dissolved again. Snape 
was hurrying along the corridor 
of the Hogwarts Express as it clattered through the countryside. He 
had already changed into his sch
ool robes, had perhaps taken the 
first opportunity to take off his drea
dful Muggle clothes. At last he 
stopped, outside a compartment in
 which a group of rowdy boys 
were talking. Hunched in a corner seat beside the window was Lily, 

her face pressed agai
nst the windowpane. Snape slid open the compartment door and sat down opposite 
Lily. She glanced at him and then looked back out of the window. 

She had been crying. 
I dont want to talk to you, 
she said in a constricted voice. 
Why not? 
Tuney h-hates me. Because we saw that letter from Dumble-
dore. So what? THE  PRINCES  TALE  671  She threw him a look 
of deep dislike. So shes my sister! 

Shes only a  He caught himself quickly; Lily, too busy trying 
to wipe her eyes without bein
g noticed, did not hear him. 
But were going! he said, unable
 to suppress the exhilaration in 
his voice. This is it! Were off to Hogwarts! 
She nodded, mopping her eyes, but 
in spite of herself, she half 
smiled. Youd better be in Slytherin, said Snape, encouraged that she 
had brightened a little. 
Slytherin? 
One of the boys sharing the co
mpartment, who had shown no 
interest at all in
 Lily or Snape until that 
point, looked
 around at 
the word, and Harry, whose attention had been focused entirely on 
the two beside the window, saw his 
father: slight, black-haired like 
Snape, but with that indefinable 
air of having been well-cared-for, 
even adored, that Snape so conspicuously lacked. 
Who wants to be in Slytherin? 
I think Id leave, wouldnt you? 
James asked the boy lounging on 
the seats opposite him, and with 
a jolt, Harry realized that it wa
s Sirius. Sirius did not smile. 
My whole family have been
 in Slytherin, he said. 
Blimey, said James, and I 
thought you seemed all right! 
Sirius grinned. 

Maybe Ill break the tradition. Where are you heading, if youve 
got the choice? 
James lifted an invisible sword. 
Gryffindor, where dwell the br
ave at heart! Like my dad. Snape made a small, disparaging 
noise. James turned on him. 
Got a problem with that? 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE  672  No, said Snape, though his sligh
t sneer said otherwise. If youd 
rather be brawny than brainy  
Wherere you hoping to go, seeing as youre neither? interjected 
Sirius. James roared with laughter. Lily sat up, rather flushed, and looked 
from James to Sirius in dislike. 
Come on, Severus, lets find another compartment. 

Oooooo . . . James and Sirius imitated her lo
fty voice; James tried to trip 
Snape as he passed. 
See ya, Snivellus! a voice called, as the compartment door 
slammed. . . . And the scene dissolve
d once more. . . . Harry was standing right behind Sn
ape as they faced the candlelit House tables, lined with rapt fa
ces. Then Professor McGonagall 
said, Evans, Lily! He watched his mother walk forw
ard on trembling legs and sit 
down upon the rickety stool. Prof
essor McGonagall dropped the 
Sorting Hat onto her head, and bare
ly a second after it had touched 
the dark red hair, the hat cried, Gryffindor
! Harry heard Snape let out a tiny gr
oan. Lily took off the hat, 
handed it back to Professor McGo
nagall, then hurried toward the 
cheering Gryffindors, but as she went she glanced back at Snape, and 

there was a sad little smile on he
r face. Harry saw Sirius move up 
the bench to make room for her. She took one look at him, seemed 
to recognize him from the train, fo
lded her arms, and firmly turned 
her back on him. 
The roll call continued. Harr
y watched Lupin,
 Pettigrew, and 
his father join Lily and Sirius at 
the Gryffindor table. At last, when 
THE  PRINCES  TALE  673  only a dozen students remained to
 be sorted, Professor McGonagall 
called Snape. Harry walked with him to the st
ool, watched him place the hat 
upon his head. Slytherin
! cried the Sorting Hat. 
And Severus Snape moved off to th
e other side of the Hall, away 
from Lily, to where the Slytheri
ns were cheering him, to where 
Lucius Malfoy, a prefect badge gl
eaming upon his chest, patted 
Snape on the back as he 
sat down beside him. . . . And the scene changed. . . . 
Lily and Snape were walking across
 the castle courtyard, evidently 
arguing. Harry hurried to catch up 
with them, to listen in. As he 
reached them, he realized how much taller they both were: A few 
years seemed to have passed since their Sorting. 
. . . thought we were supposed to
 be friends? Snape was saying. 
Best friends? 
We are, Sev, but I dont like some of the people youre hanging 
round with! Im sorry, but I 
detest Avery and Mulciber! 
Mulciber! What do you see in him, Sev, hes creepy! Dyou know what he tried 
to do to Mary Macdonald the other day? 
Lily had reached a pillar and lean
ed against it, looking up into 
the thin, sallow face. That was nothing, said Snape. 
It was a laugh, thats all  
It was Dark Magic, and if you think thats funny  

What about the stuff Potter and his mates get up to? demanded 
Snape. His color rose again as he sa
id it, unable, it seemed, to hold 
in his resentment. 
Whats Potter got to do with anything? said Lily. 
They sneak out at night. Ther
es something weird about that 
Lupin. Where does he keep going? 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE  674  Hes ill, said Lily. 
They say hes ill  
Every month at the full moon? said Snape. 

I know your theory, said Lily
, and she sounded cold. Why are 
you so obsessed with them anyway
? Why do you care what theyre 
doing at night? Im just trying to show you they
re not as wonderful as everyone 
seems to think they are. 
The intensity of his ga
ze made her blush. 
They dont use Dark Magic, th
ough. She dropped her voice. 
And youre being really ungrateful. I heard what happened the other 

night. You went sneaking down th
at tunnel by the Whomping Wil-
low, and James Potter saved you 
from whatevers down there  
Snapes whole face contorted and he spluttered, Saved? Saved? 
You think he was playing the hero? 
He was saving his neck and his 
friends too! Youre not go
ing to  I wont let you  
Let me? 
Let me? 
Lilys bright green eyes were sl
its. Snape backtracked at once. 
I didnt mean  I just dont want
 to see you made 
a fool of  He 
fancies you, James Potter fancies you! The words seemed wrenched 
from him against his will. And hes
 not . . . everyone thinks . . . 
big Quidditch hero  Snapes bi
tterness and dislike were render-
ing him incoherent, and Lilys eyebrows were traveling farther and 
farther up her forehead. 
I know James Potters an arroga
nt toerag, she said, cutting 
across Snape. I dont need you to 
tell me that. But Mulcibers and 
Averys idea of humor is just evil. 
Evil, Sev. I dont understand how 
you can be friends with them. 
Harry doubted that Snape had even
 heard her strictures on Mul-
ciber and Avery. The moment sh
e had insulted James Potter, his 
THE  PRINCES  TALE  675  whole body had relaxed, and as they walked away there was a new 
spring in Snap
es step. . . . And the scene dissolved. . . . 
Harry watched again as Snape left 
the Great Hall after sitting his 
O.W.L. in Defense Against the Dark
 Arts, watched as he wandered 
away from the castle and strayed in
advertently close to the place be-
neath the beech tree where James, Sirius, Lupin, and Pettigrew sat 

together. But Harry kept his distance
 this time, because he knew what 
happened after James had hoisted Se
verus into the air and taunted 
him; he knew what had been done an
d said, and it gave him no plea-
sure to hear it again. . . . He watched as Lily joined the group and 
went to Snapes defense. Distantly he heard Snape shout at her in his 
humiliation and his fury, 
the unforgivable word: 
Mudblood.
 The scene changed. . . . 
Im sorry. 

Im not interested. 
Im sorry! 
Save your breath. 
It was nighttime. Lily, who was 
wearing a dressing gown, stood 
with her arms folded in front of th
e portrait of the Fat Lady, at the 
entrance to Gryffindor Tower. 
I only came out because Mary to
ld me you were threatening to 
sleep here. 
I was. I would have done. I nev
er meant to call you Mudblood, 
it just  
Slipped out? There was no pity in Lilys voice. Its too late. Ive 
made excuses for you for years. No
ne of my friends can understand 
why I even talk to you. You and yo
ur precious little Death Eater 
friends  you see, you dont even de
ny it! You dont even deny thats 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE  676  what youre all aiming to be! You 
cant wait to join You-Know-Who, 
can you? 
He opened his mouth, but cl
osed it without speaking. I cant pretend anymore. Youve
 chosen your way, Ive chosen 
mine. 
No  listen, I didnt mean  
 to call me Mudblood? But 
you call everyone of my birth 
Mudblood, Severus. Why should I be any different? He struggled on the verge of speech, but with a contemptuous 
look she turned and climbed back 
through the portrait hole. . . . 
The corridor dissolved, and the scene 
took a little longer to re-
form: Harry seemed to fly through shifting shapes and colors until 
his surroundings solidified again an
d he stood on a hilltop, forlorn 
and cold in the darkness, the wind whistling through the branches 
of a few leafless trees. The adult Snape was panting, turning on the 

spot, his wand gripped tightly in
 his hand, waiting for something 
or for someone. . . . His fear 
infected Harry too, even though he 
knew that he could not be harmed, and he looked over his shoulder, 
wondering what it was that
 Snape was waiting for  Then a blinding, jagged jet of w
hite light flew through the air: 
Harry thought of lightning, but Snape had dropped to his knees 
and his wand had flown out of his hand. 
Dont kill me! 

That was not my intention. 
Any sound of Dumbledore Appara
ting had been drowned by 
the sound of the wind in the branches. He stood before Snape with 
his robes whipping around him, and his face was illuminated from 
below in the light cast by his wand. 

 THE  PRINCES  TALE  677  Well, Severus? What message 
does Lord Voldemort have for 
me? 
No  no message  Im here on my own account! 
Snape was wringing his hands: He looked a little mad, with his 
straggling black hair flying around him. 
I  I come with a warning 
 no, a request 
 please  
Dumbledore flicked his wand. Though leaves and branches still 
flew through the night air around 
them, silence fell on the spot 
where he and Snape faced each other. 
What request could a Death Eater make of me? 

The  the prophecy . 
. . the prediction . . . Trelawney . . . Ah, yes, said Dumbledore. How
 much did you relay to Lord 
Voldemort? 
Everything  everything I heard! said Snape. That is why  
it is for that reason  he 
thinks it means Lily Evans! The prophecy did not refer to a woman, said Dumbledore. It 
spoke of a boy born at
 the end of July  You know what I mean
! He thinks it means her son, he is going 
to hunt her down  kill them all  
If she means so much to you, 
said Dumbledore, surely Lord 
Voldemort will spare her? Could 
you not ask for mercy for the mother, in exchange for the son? 
I have  I have asked him  
You disgust me, said Dumble
dore, and Harry had never heard 
so much contempt in his voice. Snape seemed to shrink a little. You 
do not care, then, about the deaths 
of her husband and child? They 
can die, as long as yo
u have what you want? 
Snape said nothing, but merely
 looked up at Dumbledore. 
 CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE  678  Hide them all, then, he croa
ked. Keep her  them  safe. 
Please. And what will you give 
me in return, Severus? 
In  in return? Snape gaped at Dumbledore, and Harry expected him to protest, but after a long moment he said, Anything. 
The hilltop faded, and Harry st
ood in Dumbledores office, and 
something was making a terrible 
sound, like a wounded animal. 
Snape was slumped forward in a 
chair and Dumbledore was stand-ing over him, looking grim. After a moment or two, Snape raised 
his face, and he looked like a 
man who had lived a hundred years of misery since leaving the wild hilltop. 
I thought . . . you were going . . 
. to keep her . 
. . safe. . . . She and James put their faith in
 the wrong person, said Dum-
bledore. Rather like you, Severus. Werent you hoping that Lord 
Voldemort would spare her? 
Snapes breathing was shallow. 
Her boy survives, said Dumbledore. 
With a tiny jerk of the head, Sn
ape seemed to flick off an irk-
some fly. Her son lives. He has her eyes, precisely her eyes. You remember the shape and color of Lily 
Evanss eyes, I am sure? 
DONT! bellowed Snape. 
Gone . . . dead . . . 
Is this remorse, Severus? 

I wish . . . I wish I were dead. . . . 
And what use would that be to anyone? said Dumbledore 
coldly. If you loved Lily Evans, 
if you truly loved her, then your 
way forward is clear. 
Snape seemed to peer through a haze of pain, and Dumbledores 
words appeared to take a 
long time to reach him. 
THE  PRINCES  TALE  679  What  what do you mean? 
You know how and why she died. 
Make sure it was not in vain. 
Help me protect Lilys son. 
He does not need protection. 
The Dark Lord has gone  
The Dark Lord will return, and 
Harry Potter will be in terrible 
danger when he does. There was a long pause, and slowly
 Snape regained 
control of him-
self, mastered his own breathing. At last he said, Very well. Very 
well. But never  never tell, Du
mbledore! This must be between 
us! Swear it! I cannot bear . . . especi
ally Potters son . 
. . I want your word! 
My word, Severus, that I shall 
never reveal the best of you? 
Dumbledore sighed, looking down 
into Snapes ferocious, anguished 
face. If you insist . . . 
The office dissolved but re-forme
d instantly. Snape was pacing 
up and down in front of Dumbledore. 
 mediocre, arrogant as hi
s father, a determined rule-
breaker, delighted to find hims
elf famous, attention-seeking and impertinent  
You see what you expect to see, Severus, said Dumbledore, with-
out raising his eyes from a copy of 
Transfiguration Today. Other 
teachers report that the boy is mo
dest, likable, and reasonably tal-
ented. Personally, I find him an engaging child. 
Dumbledore turned a page, and sa
id, without looking up, Keep an eye on Quirrell, wont you? 
A whirl of color, and now ever
ything darkened, and Snape and 
Dumbledore stood a little apart in the entrance 
hall, while the last stragglers from the Yule
 Ball passed them on
 their way to bed. Well? murmured Dumbledore. 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE  680  Karkaroffs Mark is becoming darker too. He is panicking, he 
fears retribution; yo
u know how much help he gave the Minis-
try after the Dark Lord fell. Snape looked sideways at Dumble-
dores crooked-nosed profile. Karka
roff intends to flee if the Mark 
burns. 
Does he? said Dumbledore softly
, as Fleur Delacour and Roger 
Davies came giggling 
in from the grounds. 
And are you tempted 
to join him? 
No, said Snape, his black eyes 
on Fleurs and Rogers retreating 
figures. I am not such a coward. 
No, agreed Dumbledore. You are a braver man by far than Igor 
Karkaroff. You know, I sometimes 
think we Sort too soon. . . . 
He walked away, leaving Snap
e looking stricken. . . . 
And now Harry stood in the headma
sters office yet again. It 
was nighttime, and Dumbledore sagged sideways in the thronelike 

chair behind the desk, apparently
 semiconscious. His right hand 
dangled over the side, blackened 
and burned. Snape was muttering 
incantations, pointing his wand at the wrist of the hand, while with 
his left hand he tipped a goblet 
full of thick golden potion down 
Dumbledores throat. After a moment
 or two, Dumbledores eyelids 
fluttered and opened. Why, said Snape, without preamble, 
why did you put on 
that ring? It carries a curse, su
rely you realized that. Why even 
touch it? 
Marvolo Gaunts ring lay on the 
desk before Dumbledore. It was 
cracked; the sword of Gryffindor lay beside it. Dumbledore grimaced. 
I . . . was a fool. Sorely tempted . . . 

Tempted by what? 
THE  PRINCES  TALE  681  Dumbledore did not answer. It is a miracle you managed to return here! Snape sounded fu-
rious. That ring carried a curse of
 extraordinary power, to contain 
it is all we can hope for; I have
 trapped the curse 
in one hand for 
the time being  Dumbledore raised his blackened, 
useless hand, and examined it 
with the expression of one being shown an interesting curio. 
You have done very well, Seve
rus. How long do you think I 
have? 
Dumbledores tone was conversational; he might have been asking 
for a weather forecast. Snape hesitated, and then said, I cannot tell. 
Maybe a year. There is no halting su
ch a spell forever. It will spread 
eventually, it is the sort of cu
rse that strengthens over time. 
Dumbledore smiled. The news that he had less than a year to live 
seemed a matter of little or no concern to him. 
I am fortunate, extremely fortunate, that I have you, Severus. 
If you had only summ
oned me a little earl
ier, I might have 
been able to do more, buy you more time! said Snape furiously. 
He looked down at the broken ring and the sword. Did you think 
that breaking the ring would break the curse? 
Something like that . . . I was de
lirious, no doubt. . . . said 
Dumbledore. With an effort he st
raightened himself in his chair. 
Well, really, this makes matters much more straightforward. 
Snape looked utterly perp
lexed. Dumbledore smiled. I refer to the plan Lord Voldem
ort is revolving around me. His 
plan to have the poor Malfoy boy murder me. 
Snape sat down in the chair Harry had so often occupied, across 
the desk from Dumbledore. Harry co
uld tell that he wanted to say 
more on the subject of Dumbledores cursed hand, but the other 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE  682  held it up in polite refusal to di
scuss the matter further. Scowling, 
Snape said, The Dark Lord does no
t expect Draco to succeed. This 
is merely punishment for Luciuss 
recent failures. Slow torture for 
Dracos parents, while they watc
h him fail and pay the price. 
In short, the boy has had a death sentence pronounced upon him 
as surely as I have, said Dumble
dore. Now, I should have thought 
the natural successor to 
the job, once Draco fails, is yourself? 
There was a short pause. 
That, I think, is th
e Dark Lords plan. 
Lord Voldemort foresees a moment
 in the near future when he 
will not need a spy at Hogwarts? 
He believes the school will 
soon be in his grasp, yes. 
And if it does fall into his grasp, said Dumbledore, almost, it 
seemed, as an aside, I have your 
word that you will do all in your 
power to protect the students of Hogwarts? 
Snape gave a stiff nod. 
Good. Now then. Your first priori
ty will be to discover what 
Draco is up to. A frightened teenag
e boy is a danger to others as 
well as to himself. Offer him help 
and guidance, he ought to accept, 
he likes you  
 much less since his father ha
s lost favor. Draco blames me, 
he thinks I have usurped Luciuss position. 
All the same, try. I am concerned less for myself than for acciden-
tal victims of whatever schemes might occur to the boy. Ultimately, 
of course, there is only one thing 
to be done if we are to save him 
from Lord Voldemorts wrath. 
Snape raised his eyebrows and his tone was sardonic as he asked, 
Are you intending to
 let him kill you? Certainly not. You must kill me. 
THE  PRINCES  TALE  683  There was a long silence, broken 
only by an odd clicking noise. 
Fawkes the phoenix was gnawing a bit of cuttlebone. 
Would you like me to do it no
w? asked Snape, his voice heavy 
with irony. Or would you like
 a few moments to compose an 
epitaph? 
Oh, not quite yet, said Dumbledore, smiling. I daresay the 
moment will present itself in du
e course. Given what has happened 
tonight, he indicated his withered
 hand, we can be sure that it 
will happen within a year. If you dont mind dying, said
 Snape roughly, why not let 
Draco do it? 
That boys soul is not yet so damaged, said Dumbledore. I 
would not have it ripped apart on my account. 
And my soul, Dumbledore? Mine? 
You alone know whether it will ha
rm your soul to help an old 
man avoid pain and humiliation, sa
id Dumbledore. I ask this one 
great favor of you, Severus, because 
death is coming for me as surely 
as the Chudley Cannons will finish bottom of this years league. I 
confess I should prefer a quick, pain
less exit to the protracted and 
messy affair it will be if, for instance, Greyback is involved  I hear 

Voldemort has recruited him? Or dear
 Bellatrix, who likes to play 
with her food before she eats it. 
His tone was light, but his blue eyes pierced Snape as they had 
frequently pierced Harry, as thou
gh the soul they discussed was 
visible to him. At last Snape gave another curt nod. 
Dumbledore seemed satisfied. Thank you, Severus . . . 
The office disappeared, and now Snape and Dumbledore were 
strolling together in the deserted castle grounds by twilight. 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE  684  What are you doing with Potter, 
all these evenings you are clos-
eted together? Snape asked abruptly. 
Dumbledore looked weary. 
Why? You arent tryi
ng to give him 
more detentions, Severus? 
The boy will soon have
 spent more time in detention than out. He is his father over again  
In looks, perhaps, but his deepes
t nature is much more like his 
mothers. I spend time with Harry be
cause I have things to discuss 
with him, information I must give
 him before it 
is too late. Information, repeated Snape. You trust him . . . you do not 
trust me. 
It is not a question of trust. I have, as we both know, limited 
time. It is essential that I give
 the boy enough i
nformation for him to do what he needs to do. And why may I not have 
the same information? I prefer not to put all of my se
crets in one basket, particularly 
not a basket that spends so much ti
me dangling on the arm of Lord 
Voldemort. 
Which I do on your orders! 
And you do it extremely well. 
Do not think that I underesti-
mate the constant danger in which you place yourself, Severus. 
To give Voldemort what appears to
 be valuable information while 
withholding the essentials is a jo
b I would entrust to nobody but 
you. 
Yet you confide much more in 
a boy who is incapable of Occlu-
mency, whose magic is mediocre, 
and who has a direct connection 
into the Dark Lords mind! 
Voldemort fears that connection
, said Dumbledore. Not so 
long ago he had one small taste of
 what truly sharing Harrys mind 
THE  PRINCES  TALE  685  means to him. It was pain such as he has never experienced. He will 
not try to possess Harry again, I am
 sure of it. Not in that way. 
I dont understand. Lord Voldemorts soul, maimed as it is, cannot bear close contact 
with a soul like Harrys. Like a to
ngue on frozen steel, like flesh in 
flame  Souls? We were ta
lking of minds! In the case of Harry and Lord Vo
ldemort, to speak of one is to 
speak of the other. 
Dumbledore glanced around to make
 sure that they were alone. 
They were close by the Forbidden Fo
rest now, but there was no sign 
of anyone near them. 
After you have ki
lled me, Severus  You refuse to tell me everything, yet you expect that small ser-
vice of me! snarled Snape, and re
al anger flared in the thin face 
now. You take a great deal for granted, Dumbledore! Perhaps I have 
changed my mind! 
You gave me your word, Severus.
 And while we are talking about 
services you owe me, I thought you agreed to keep a close eye on 
our young Slytherin friend? 
Snape looked angry, muti
nous. Dumbledore sighed. 
Come to my office tonight, Seve
rus, at eleven, and you shall not 
complain that I have no co
nfidence in you. . . . They were back in Dumbledore
s office, the windows dark, and Fawkes sat silent as Snape sat qu
ite still, as Dumbledore walked 
around him, talking. 
Harry must not know, not until 
the last moment
, not until it 
is necessary, otherwise how could he
 have the strength to do what 
must be done? 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE  686  But what must he do? 
That is between Harry and me. Now listen closely, Severus. 
There will come a time  after 
my death  do not argue, do not 
interrupt! There will come a time
 when Lord Voldemort will seem 
to fear for the li
fe of his snake. 
For Nagini? Snape looked astonished. 
Precisely. If there comes a time
 when Lord Voldem
ort stops send-
ing that snake forth to do his biddin
g, but keeps it safe beside him un-
der magical protection, th
en, I think, it will be
 safe to tell Harry. 
Tell him what? 

Dumbledore took a deep breath and closed his eyes. 
Tell him that on the night Lord
 Voldemort tried to kill him, 
when Lily cast her own life between 
them as a shield, the Killing 
Curse rebounded upon Lord Voldem
ort, and a fragment of Volde-
morts soul was blasted apart from 
the whole, and latched itself onto 
the only living soul left in that 
collapsing building. Part of Lord Vol-
demort lives inside Harry, and it 
is that which gives him the power 
of speech with snakes, and a co
nnection with Lord Voldemorts 
mind that he has never understo
od. And while that fragment of 
soul, unmissed by Voldemort, re
mains attached to
 and protected 
by Harry, Lord Vold
emort cannot die. 
Harry seemed to be watching th
e two men from one end of a 
long tunnel, they were so far away
 from him, their voices echoing 
strangely in his ears. 
So the boy . . . the boy must 
die? asked Snape quite calmly. 
And Voldemort himself must do it, Severus. That is essential. 
Another long silence. 
Then Snape said, I th
ought . . . all these years . . . that we were protec
ting him for her. For Lily. 
 THE  PRINCES  TALE  687  We have protected him because it
 has been essential to teach 
him, to raise him, to let him t
ry his strength, said Dumbledore, 
his eyes still tight shut. Meanw
hile, the connection between them grows ever stronger, a parasitic 
growth: Sometimes I have thought 
he suspects it himself. If I know 
him, he will have arranged matters 
so that when he does set out to meet his death, it will truly mean 
the end of Voldemort. 
Dumbledore opened his eyes
. Snape looked horrified. 
You have kept him alive so th
at he can die at the right mo-
ment? 
Dont be shocked, Severus. 
How many men and women have 
you watched die? Lately, only those whom I could not save, said Snape. He stood 
up. You have used me. 
Meaning? 
I have spied for you and lied fo
r you, put myself in mortal dan-
ger for you. Everything was suppose
d to be to keep Lily Potters 
son safe. Now you tell me you have 
been raising him like a pig for 
slaughter  But this is touching, Severus, 
said Dumbledore seriously. Have 
you grown to care for 
the boy, after all? 
For him? shouted Snape. 
Expecto Patronum
! From the tip of his wand burst the silver doe: She landed on the 
office floor, bounded once across th
e office, and soared out of the 
window. Dumbledore watched her fly away, and as her silvery glow 
faded he turned back to Snape, an
d his eyes were full of tears. 
After all this time? 
Always, said Snape. 
 CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE  688  And the scene shifted. Now, Ha
rry saw Snape talking to the 
portrait of Dumbledore behind his desk. 
You will have to give Voldemort 
the correct date of Harrys de-
parture from his aunt and uncles, 
said Dumbledore. Not to do so 
will raise suspicion, when Voldemor
t believes you so well informed. 
However, you must plant the idea of decoys; that, I think, ought to 
ensure Harrys safety. Try Confunding Mundungus Fletcher. And 

Severus, if you are forced
 to take part in the 
chase, be sure to act 
your part convincingly. . . . I am counting upon you to remain in 
Lord Voldemorts good b
ooks as long as possible, or Hogwarts will 
be left to the mercy of
 the Carrows. . . . Now Snape was head to head with
 Mundungus in an unfamiliar 
tavern, Mundunguss face looking 
curiously blank, Snape frowning 
in concentration. 
You will suggest to the Order of
 the Phoenix, Snape murmured, 
that they use decoys. Polyjuice Poti
on. Identical Potters. It is the 
only thing that might work. You wi
ll forget that I have suggested 
this. You will present it as yo
ur own idea. You understand? 
I understand, murmured Mundungus, his eyes unfocused. . . . 
Now Harry was flying alongside Snape on a broomstick through a 
clear dark night: He was accomp
anied by other hooded Death Eat-
ers, and ahead were Lupin and a 
Harry who was really George. . . . 
A Death Eater moved ahead of Snape and raised his wand, pointing 

it directly at Lupins back  
Sectumsempra
! shouted Snape. But the spell, intended for the 
Death Eaters wand hand, missed 
and hit George instead  
And next, Snape was kneeling in Siriuss old bedroom. Tears were  
 THE  PRINCES  TALE  689  dripping from the end of his hooked
 nose as he read the old letter 
from Lily. The second page 
carried only a few words: 
 could ever have been friends wi
th Gellert Grindelwald. I think 
her minds going, personally! 
Lots of love,   Snape took the page bearing Lilys signature, and her love, and 
tucked it inside his robes. Then he ripped in two the photograph he 
was also holding, so that he kept 
the part from which Lily laughed, 
throwing the portion showing Jame
s and Harry back onto the floor, 
under the chest of drawers. . . . 
And now Snape stood again in the 
headmasters study as Phineas 
Nigellus came hurrying into his portrait. 
Headmaster! They are camping in the Forest of Dean! The 
Mudblood  Do not use that word! 
 the Granger girl, then, ment
ioned the place as she opened 
her bag and I heard her! 
Good. Very good! cried the portra
it of Dumbledore behind the 
headmasters chair. Now, Severus, 
the sword! Do not forget that it 
must be taken under conditions 
of need and valor  and he must 
not know that you give it! If Vo
ldemort should read Harrys mind 
and see you acting for him  
I know, said Snape curtly. He 
approached the portrait of Dum-
bledore and pulled at its side. It swung forward, revealing a hidden 
cavity behind it from which he
 took the sword of Gryffindor.  CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE  690  And you still arent going to tell
 me why its so important to 
give Potter the sword? said Snape as he swung a traveling cloak 

over his robes. 
No, I dont think so, said Dumb
ledores portrait. He will know 
what to do with it. And Severus, be very careful, they may not take 
kindly to your appearance after George Weasleys mishap  
Snape turned at the door. 

Dont worry, Dumbledore, he said
 coolly. I have a plan. . . . And Snape left the room. Harry rose up out of the Pensieve, and 
moments later he lay on the carpeted floor in exactly the same room: 

Snape might just have closed the door. 
C H A P T E R  T H I R T Y - F O U R   691  THE FOREST AGAIN 
   inally, the truth. Lying with his face pressed into the dusty 
carpet of the office where he 
had once thought he was learn-
ing the secrets of victory, Harry understood at last that he was 

not supposed to survive. His job was to walk calmly into Deaths 
welcoming arms. Along the way, he
 was to dispose of Voldemorts 
remaining links to life, so that wh
en at last he flung himself across 
Voldemorts path, and did not raise a wand to defend himself, the 
end would be clean, and the job 
that ought to have been done 
in Godrics Hollow would be finished: Neither would live, neither 
could survive. 
He felt his heart pounding fiercely
 in his chest. How strange that 
in his dread of death, it pumped
 all the harder, valiantly keeping 
him alive. But it would have to 
stop, and soon. Its beats were num-
bered. How many would there be time for, as he rose and walked 
through the castle for the last ti
me, out into the grounds and into 
the forest? 
F CHAPTER  THIRTY-FOUR  692  Terror washed over him as he lay on the floor, with that funeral 
drum pounding inside him. Would 
it hurt to die?
 All those times 
he had thought that it was abou
t to happen and escaped, he had 
never really thought of the thing itself: His will to live had always 
been so much stronger than his fea
r of death. Yet it did not occur 
to him now to try to escape, to ou
trun Voldemort. It was over, he 
knew it, and all that was left was the thing itself: dying. If he could only have died on that summers night when he had 
left number four, Privet Drive, for the last time, when the noble 
phoenix-feather wand had saved him!
 If he could on
ly have died 
like Hedwig, so quickly he would not have known it had happened! 
Or if he could have launched himself in front of a wand to save 
someone he loved. . . . He envied even his parents deaths now. This 
cold-blooded walk to his own dest
ruction would require a different 
kind of bravery. He felt his fing
ers trembling slightly and made an 
effort to control them, although no
 one could see him; the portraits 
on the walls were all empty. Slowly, very slowly, he sat up, and as he did so he felt more alive 
and more aware of his own living 
body than ever before. Why had 
he never appreciated what a mira
cle he was, brain and nerve and 
bounding heart? It would all be go
ne . . . or at least, he would be 
gone from it. His breath came sl
ow and deep, and his mouth and 
throat were completely dry, but so were his eyes. 
Dumbledores betrayal was almost 
nothing. Of course there had 
been a bigger plan; Harry had simply 
been too foolish to see it, he 
realized that now. He had neve
r questioned his own assumption 
that Dumbledore wanted him alive.
 Now he saw that his life span 
had always been determined by how 
long it took to 
eliminate all the 
Horcruxes. Dumbledore had passed th
e job of destroying them to 
THE  FOREST  AGAIN  693  him, and obediently he had continue
d to chip away at the bonds ty-
ing not only Voldemort, but himself,
 to life! How neat, how elegant, 
not to waste any more lives, but to
 give the dangerous task to the 
boy who had already been marked 
for slaughter, and whose death 
would not be a calamity, but an
other blow against Voldemort. 
And Dumbledore had known that 
Harry would not duck out, 
that he would keep going to 
the end, even though it was 
his end, 
because he had taken trouble to get 
to know him, hadnt he? Dumble-
dore knew, as Voldemort knew, that
 Harry would not let anyone else 
die for him now that he had discovered it was in his power to stop 

it. The images of Fred, Lupin, an
d Tonks lying dead in the Great 
Hall forced their way back into 
his minds eye, and for a moment 
he could hardly breathe: 
Death was impatient. . . . But Dumbledore had overestimated him. He had failed: The 
snake survived. One Horcrux remained to bind Voldemort to the 
earth, even after Harry had been ki
lled. True, that would mean an 
easier job for somebody. He wondered who would do it. . . . Ron 
and Hermione would know what needed
 to be done, of course. . . . 
That would have been why Dumble
dore wanted him to confide in 
two others . . . so that if he fulfil
led his true destiny a little early, 
they could carry on. . . . 
Like rain on a cold window, these thoughts pattered against the 
hard surface of the incontrovertible
 truth, which was that he must 
die. I must die.
 It must end. 
Ron and Hermione seemed a long way away, in a far-off country; he felt as though he had parted 
from them long ago. There would 
be no good-byes and no explanatio
ns, he was determined of that. 
This was a journey they could not 
take together, and the attempts 
they would make to stop him woul
d waste valuable time. He looked 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-FOUR  694  down at the battered gold watch he
 had received on his seventeenth 
birthday. Nearly half of the hour
 allotted by Voldemort for his sur-
render had elapsed. He stood up. His heart was leaping against his ribs like a frantic 
bird. Perhaps it knew it had little
 time left, perhaps it was deter-
mined to fulfill a lifetimes beat
s before the end. 
He did not look 
back as he closed the office door. The castle was empty. He felt ghostl
y striding through it alone, as 
if he had already died. The portrait
 people were still missing from 
their frames; the whole place was eeril
y still, as if all its remaining 
lifeblood were concentrated in th
e Great Hall where the dead and 
the mourners were crammed. 
Harry pulled the Invisibility Cloa
k over himself and descended 
through the floors, at last walking down the marble staircase into 
the entrance hall. Perhaps some tiny part of him hoped to be sensed, 

to be seen, to be stopped, but the Cloak was, as ever, impenetrable, 
perfect, and he reached the front doors easily. 
Then Neville nearly walked into hi
m. He was one half of a pair 
that was carrying a body in fr
om the grounds. Harry glanced down 
and felt another dull blow to hi
s stomach: Colin Creevey, though 
underage, must have sneaked back
 just as Malfoy, Crabbe, and 
Goyle had done. He was tiny in death. 
You know what? I can manage hi
m alone, Neville, said Oliver 
Wood, and he heaved Colin over his 
shoulder in a fi
remans lift and 
carried him into the Great Hall. 
Neville leaned against the door 
frame for a moment and wiped 
his forehead with the back of his 
hand. He looked li
ke an old man. 
Then he set off down the steps agai
n into the darkness to recover 
more bodies. 
THE  FOREST  AGAIN  695  Harry took one glance back at 
the entrance of the Great Hall. 
People were moving around, trying 
to comfort each other, drinking, 
kneeling beside the dead, but he co
uld not see any of the people he 
loved, no hint of Hermione, Ron, Ginny, or any of the other Weas-
leys, no Luna. He felt he would ha
ve given all the time remaining 
to him for just one last look at 
them; but then, would he ever have 
the strength to stop looking? It was better like this. 
He moved down the steps and out 
into the darkness. It was nearly 
four in the morning, and the deathl
y stillness of the grounds felt as 
though they were holding their br
eath, waiting to see whether he 
could do what he must. Harry moved toward Neville, who was bending over another 
body. 
Neville. Blimey, Harry, you nearly gave me heart failure! 

Harry had pulled off the Cloak: The idea had come to him out 
of nowhere, born out of a desi
re to make absolutely sure. 
Where are you going, alone?
 Neville asked suspiciously. 
Its all part of the plan, said 
Harry. Theres something Ive got 
to do. Listen  Neville  
Harry! Neville looked suddenl
y scared. Harry, youre not 
thinking of handin
g yourself over? 
No, Harry lied easily. Course 
not . . . this is something else. 
But I might be out of sight for a wh
ile. You know Voldemorts snake, 
Neville? Hes got a huge snake. . . . Calls it 
Nagini . . . Ive heard, yeah. . . . What about it? Its got to be killed. Ron and 
Hermione know that, but just in 
case they  
The awfulness of that possibili
ty smothered him for a moment, 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-FOUR  696  made it impossible to keep talking.
 But he pulled himself together 
again: This was crucial, he must be like Dumbledore, keep a cool 

head, make sure there were backup
s, others to carry on. Dumbledore 
had died knowing that three people
 still knew about the Horcruxes; 
now Neville would take Harrys pl
ace: There would still be three 
in the secret. 
Just in case theyre  busy  and you get the chance  

Kill the snake? 
Kill the snake, Harry repeated. 
All right, Harry. Yo
ure okay, are you? 
Im fine. Thanks, Neville. But Neville seized his wrist 
as Harry made to move on. 
Were all going to keep fighting, Harry. You know that? 
Yeah, I  
The suffocating feeling extinguish
ed the end of the sentence; he 
could not go on. Neville did not seem
 to find it strange. He patted 
Harry on the shoulder, released him, and walked away to look for 
more bodies. 
Harry swung the Cloak back over 
himself and walked on. Some-
one else was moving not far aw
ay, stooping over another prone 
figure on the ground. He was feet 
away from her wh
en he realized 
it was Ginny. 
He stopped in his tracks. She wa
s crouching over a girl who was 
whispering for her mother. 
Its all right, Ginny was saying. Its okay. Were going to get 
you inside. 
But I want to go 
home, whispered the girl. I dont want to 
fight anymore! 

 THE  FOREST  AGAIN  697  I know, said Ginny, and her voice broke. Its going to be all 
right. Ripples of cold undulated over Harrys skin. He wanted to shout 
out to the night, he wanted Ginny 
to know that he was there, he 
wanted her to know where he was go
ing. He wanted to be stopped, 
to be dragged back, to be sent back home. . . . 
But he was home. Hogwarts was the first and best home he had 
known. He and Voldemort and Snape, the abandoned boys, had all 
found home here. . . . Ginny was kneeling beside the inju
red girl now, holding her hand. 
With a huge effort Harry forced himself on. He thought he saw 
Ginny look around as he passed,
 and wondered whether she had 
sensed someone walking nearby, bu
t he did not speak, and he did 
not look back. 
Hagrids hut loomed out of the darkness. There were no lights, no 
sound of Fang scrabbling at the doo
r, his bark booming in welcome. 
All those visits to Hagrid, and the gleam of the copper kettle on the 
fire, and rock cakes and giant grub
s, and his great bearded face, and 
Ron vomiting slugs, and Hermione
 helping him save Norbert . . . 
He moved on, and now he reache
d the edge of the forest, and 
he stopped. A swarm of dementors was gliding amongst the trees; he could 
feel their chill, and he was not sure
 he would be able to pass safely 
through it. He had no strength l
eft for a Patronus. He could no 
longer control his own trembling. It
 was not, after all, so easy to 
die. Every second he breathed, the 
smell of the grass, the cool air 
on his face, was so precious: To think that people had years and 
years, time to waste, so much time
 it dragged, and he was clinging  
 CHAPTER  THIRTY-FOUR  698  to each second. At the same time 
he thought that he would not be 
able to go on, and knew that he
 must. The long game was ended, 
the Snitch had been caught, it wa
s time to leave the air. . . . The Snitch. His nerveless fingers 
fumbled for a moment with the 
pouch at his neck an
d he pulled it out. I open at the close. 
Breathing fast and hard, he stared down at it. Now that he wanted 
time to move as slowly as possible, it seemed to have sped up, and un-
derstanding was coming so fast it 
seemed to have bypassed thought. 
This was the close. This was the moment. 
He pressed the golden metal to his lips and whispered, I am 
about to die. 
The metal shell broke open. He lo
wered his shaking hand, raised 
Dracos wand beneath the Cloak, and murmured, 
Lumos.
 The black stone with its jagged crack running down the center sat 
in the two halves of the Snitch. 
The Resurrection Stone had cracked 
down the vertical line representing 
the Elder Wand. The triangle and 
circle representing the Cloak and the stone we
re still discernible. And again Harry understood without having to think. It did not 
matter about bringing them back, for he was about to join them. He 
was not really fetching them: They were fetching him. He closed his eyes and turned th
e stone over in his hand three 
times. 
He knew it had happened, because he heard slight movements 
around him that suggested frail bodi
es shifting thei
r footing on the 
earthy, twig-strewn ground that mark
ed the outer edge of the forest. 
He opened his eyes and looked around. 
They were neither ghost nor truly 
flesh, he could see that. They  
 THE  FOREST  AGAIN  699  resembled most closely the Riddle 
that had escaped from the diary 
so long ago, and he had been memory made nearly solid. Less sub-

stantial than living bodies, but mu
ch more than ghosts, they moved 
toward him, and on each face, th
ere was the same loving smile. 
James was exactly the same height as Harry. He was wearing the 
clothes in which he had died, and 
his hair was untidy and ruffled, 
and his glasses were a little lopsided, like Mr. Weasleys. 
Sirius was tall and handsome, 
and younger by far than Harry 
had seen him in life. He loped with an easy grace, his hands in his 
pockets and a grin on his face. 
Lupin was younger too, and much 
less shabby, and his hair was 
thicker and darker. He looked happy to be back in this familiar 
place, scene of so many adolescent wanderings. 
Lilys smile was widest of all. Sh
e pushed her long hair back as 
she drew close to him, and her green eyes, so like his, searched his 

face hungrily, as though she woul
d never be able to look at him 
enough. 
Youve been so brave. He could not speak. His eyes feasted on her, and he thought that 
he would like to stand and look at
 her forever, an
d that would be 
enough. 
You are nearly there, said Jame
s. Very close. We are . . . so 
proud of you. Does it hurt? 
The childish question had fallen fr
om Harrys lips before he could 
stop it. 
Dying? Not at all, said Sirius. 
Quicker and easier than falling 
asleep. 

 CHAPTER  THIRTY-FOUR  700  And he will want it to be quick. He wants it over, said Lupin. 
I didnt want you to die, Ha
rry said. These words came without 
his volition. Any of you. Im sorry  
He addressed Lupin more than 
any of them, beseeching him. 
 right after youd had your 
son . . . Remus, Im sorry  
I am sorry too, said Lupin. Sorry I will never know him . . . 
but he will know why I died and I 
hope he will understand. I was 
trying to make a world in whic
h he could live 
a happier life. A chilly breeze that seemed to 
emanate from the heart of the for-
est lifted the hair at Harrys brow. He knew that they would not tell 

him to go, that it would 
have to be 
his decision. 
Youll stay with me? 
Until the very end, said James. 
They wont be able to
 see you? asked Harry. 
We are part of you, said Sirius
. Invisible to anyone else. 
Harry looked at his mother. 
Stay close to me, he said quietly. 
And he set off. The dementors
 chill did not overcome him; 
he passed through it with his co
mpanions, and they acted like 
Patronuses to him, and together they marched through the old 

trees that grew closely together, th
eir branches tangled, their roots 
gnarled and twisted underfoot. Harry clutched the Cloak tightly 
around him in the darkness, travel
ing deeper and deeper into the 
forest, with no idea where exactly Voldemort was, but sure that 
he would find him. Beside him, ma
king scarcely a sound, walked 
James, Sirius, Lupin, and Lily, and their presence was his cour-
age, and the reason he was able to keep putting one foot in front 
of the other. His body and mind felt oddly disc
onnected now, his limbs work-
THE  FOREST  AGAIN  701  ing without conscious instruction, as
 if he were passenger, not driver, 
in the body he was about to leave.
 The dead who walked beside him 
through the forest were much more real to him now than the living 
back at the castle: Ron, Hermione
, Ginny, and all the others were 
the ones who felt like ghosts as he
 stumbled and slipped toward the 
end of his life, towa
rd Voldemort. . . . 
A thud and a whisper: Some other living creature had stirred close 
by. Harry stopped under the Cloak, 
peering around, listening, and 
his mother and father, Lupi
n and Sirius stopped too. Someone there, came a rough w
hisper close at hand. Hes got 
an Invisibility Cloak. Could it be  ? 
Two figures emerged from behind a nearby tree: Their wands 
flared, and Harry saw Yaxley and 
Dolohov peering into the dark-
ness, directly at the place Harry, his mother and father and Sirius 
and Lupin stood. Apparently they could not see anything. Definitely heard something, said Yaxley. Animal, dyou 
reckon? That head case Hagrid kept a whol
e bunch of stuff in here, said 
Dolohov, glancing over his shoulder. 
Yaxley looked down at his watch. 

Times nearly up. Potters had 
his hour. Hes not coming. 
And he was sure hed come! He wont be happy. 
Better go back, said Yaxley. F
ind out what the plan is now. He and Dolohov turned and walked deeper into the forest. Harry 
followed them, knowing that they would lead him exactly where he 
wanted to go. He glanced sideways
, and his mother smiled at him, 
and his father nodded encouragement. They had traveled on mere mi
nutes when Harry saw light ahead, and Yaxley and Dolohov stepped ou
t into a clearing that Harry 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-FOUR  702  knew had been the place where th
e monstrous Aragog had once 
lived. The remnants of his vast web were there still, but the swarm 

of descendants he had spawned had been driven out by the Death 
Eaters, to fight for their cause. 
A fire burned in the middle of the 
clearing, and its flickering light 
fell over a crowd of completely silent, watchful Death Eaters. Some 
of them were still masked and ho
oded; others showed their faces. 
Two giants sat on the outskirts of
 the group, casting massive shad-
ows over the scene, their faces cruel, rough-hewn like rock. Harry 
saw Fenrir, skulking, chewing his lo
ng nails; the great blond Rowle 
was dabbing at his bleeding lip. 
He saw Lucius Malfoy, who looked 
defeated and terrified, and Narcissa, whose eyes were sunken and 
full of apprehension. 
Every eye was fixed upon Voldem
ort, who stood with his head 
bowed, and his white hands folded 
over the Elder Wand in front of 
him. He might have been praying, or
 else counting silently in his 
mind, and Harry, standing still on 
the edge of the scene, thought 
absurdly of a child counting in 
a game of hide-and-seek. Behind 
his head, still swirling and coilin
g, the great snake Nagini floated 
in her glittering, charmed ca
ge, like a monstrous halo. 
When Dolohov and Yaxley rejo
ined the circle, Voldemort 
looked up. 
No sign of him, my Lord, said Dolohov. 

Voldemorts expression did not change. The red eyes seemed to 
burn in the firelight. Slowly he
 drew the Elder Wand between his 
long fingers. 
My Lord  
Bellatrix had spoken: She sat clos
est to Voldemort, disheveled, 
her face a little bloody but otherwise unharmed. 
THE  FOREST  AGAIN  703  Voldemort raised his hand to si
lence her, and she did not speak 
another word, but eyed him in
 worshipful fascination. 
I thought he would come, said
 Voldemort in his high, clear 
voice, his eyes on th
e leaping flames. I ex
pected him to come. 
Nobody spoke. They seemed as scared as Harry, whose heart was 
now throwing itself against his ribs as though determined to escape 
the body he was about to cast asid
e. His hands were sweating as he 
pulled off the Invisibility Cloak an
d stuffed it beneath his robes, 
with his wand. He did not want to be tempted to fight. 
I was, it seems . . . mistaken, said Voldemort. 

You werent. 
Harry said it as loudly as he co
uld, with all the force he could 
muster: He did not want to sound afraid. The Resurrection Stone 
slipped from between his numb fingers, and out of the corner of 
his eyes he saw his parents, Sirius, and Lupin vanish as he stepped 

forward into the firelight. At that
 moment he felt that nobody mat-
tered but Voldemort. It was just the two of them. 
The illusion was gone as soon as 
it had come. The giants roared 
as the Death Eaters rose together, 
and there were many cries, gasps, 
even laughter. Voldemort had fr
ozen where he stood, but his red 
eyes had found Harry, and he stared as Harry moved toward him, 
with nothing but the 
fire between them. 
Then a voice yelled: HARRY! NO! 

He turned: Hagrid was bound and 
trussed, tied to a tree nearby. 
His massive body shook the branch
es overhead as he struggled, 
desperate. 
NO! NO! HARRY, WHATRE YEH  ? 
QUIET! shouted Rowle, and with
 a flick of his wand Hagrid 
was silenced. 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-FOUR  704  Bellatrix, who had leapt to her feet, was looking eagerly from Vol-
demort to Harry, her breast heavin
g. The only things that moved 
were the flames and the snake, co
iling and uncoiling in the glitter-
ing cage behind Voldemorts head. 
Harry could feel his wand against his chest, but he made no at-
tempt to draw it. He knew that the snake was too well protected, 
knew that if he managed to point 
the wand at Nagini, fifty curses 
would hit him first. And still, Vo
ldemort and Harry looked at each 
other, and now Voldemort tilted his 
head a little to the side, consid-
ering the boy standing before him,
 and a singularly mirthless smile 
curled the lipless mouth. 
Harry Potter, he said very so
ftly. His voice might have been 
part of the spitting fire. The Boy Who Lived. 
None of the Death Eaters moved. 
They were waiting: Everything 
was waiting. Hagrid was struggling
, and Bellatrix was panting, and 
Harry thought inexplicably of Ginn
y, and her blazing look, and the 
feel of her lips on his  
Voldemort had raised his wand. Hi
s head was still tilted to one 
side, like a curious child, wonder
ing what would happen if he pro-
ceeded. Harry looked back into th
e red eyes, and wanted it to hap-
pen now, quickly, while he could stil
l stand, before he lost control, 
before he betrayed fear  
He saw the mouth move and a fl
ash of green light, and every-
thing was gone. C H A P T E R  T H I R T Y - F I V E   705  KING
S CROSS 
  e lay facedown, listening to th
e silence. He was perfectly 
alone. Nobody was watching
. Nobody else was there. 
He was not perfectly sure that he was there himself. 
A long time later, or maybe no time at all, it came to him that he 
must exist, must be more than disembodied thought, because he was 
lying, definitely lying, on some su
rface. Therefore he had a sense of 
touch, and the thing against 
which he lay existed too. 
Almost as soon as he had reac
hed this conclusion, Harry became 
conscious that he was naked. Convin
ced as he was of his total soli-
tude, this did not concern him, but it did intrigue him slightly. He 
wondered whether, as he could feel
, he would be able to see. In 
opening them, he discovered that he had eyes. 
He lay in a bright mist, though
 it was not like mist he had 
ever experienced before. His surroundings were not hidden by 

cloudy vapor; rather the cloudy 
vapor had not yet formed into sur-
roundings. The floor on which he 
lay seemed to be white, neither 
H CHAPTER  THIRTY-FIVE  706  warm nor cold, but simply there, a flat, blank something on which 
to be. 
He sat up. His body appeared unscathed. He touched his face. 
He was not wearing 
glasses anymore. 
Then a noise reached him throug
h the unformed nothingness 
that surrounded him: the small soft thumpings of something that 
flapped, flailed, and struggled. It wa
s a pitiful noise, yet also slightly 
indecent. He had the uncomfortabl
e feeling that he was eavesdrop-
ping on something furtive, shameful. 
For the first time, he wished he were clothed. 
Barely had the wish formed in 
his head than robes appeared a 
short distance away. He took them
 and pulled them on: They were 
soft, clean, and warm. It was extr
aordinary how they had appeared, 
just like that, the moment he had wanted them. . . . He stood up, looking around. Was he in some great Room of 
Requirement? The longer he looked, the more there was to see. A 
great domed glass roof glittered 
high above him in sunlight. Per-
haps it was a palace. Al
l was hushed and still,
 except for those odd 
thumping and whimpering noises
 coming from 
somewhere close 
by in the mist. . . . Harry turned slowly on the spot
, and his surroundings seemed 
to invent themselves before his ey
es. A wide-open space, bright and 
clean, a hall larger by far than 
the Great Hall, with that clear, 
domed glass ceiling. It was quite 
empty. He was the only person 
there, except for  
He recoiled. He had spotted the thing that was making the noises. 
It had the form of a small, naked child, curled on the ground, its 
skin raw and rough, flayed-looking
, and it lay shuddering under a  
 KINGS  CROSS  707  seat where it had been left, unwa
nted, stuffed out of sight, strug-
gling for breath. 
He was afraid of it. Small and fragile and wounded though it was, 
he did not want to appr
oach it. Nevertheless he
 drew slowly nearer, 
ready to jump back at any mome
nt. Soon he stood near enough to 
touch it, yet he could not bring hims
elf to do it. He felt like a cow-
ard. He ought to comfort it, but it repulsed him. 
You cannot help. 
He spun around. Albus Dumble
dore was walking toward him, 
sprightly and upright, wearing sw
eeping robes of 
midnight blue. 
Harry. He spread his arms wide, and his hands were both whole 
and white and undamaged. You wo
nderful boy. You brave, brave 
man. Let us walk. 
Stunned, Harry followed as Dumbledore strode away from where the flayed child lay whimpering, leading him to two seats that Harry had not previously noticed, set some
 distance away under that high, 
sparkling ceiling. Dumbledore sa
t down in one of them, and Harry 
fell into the other, staring at his old headmasters face. Dumbledores 
long silver hair and beard, the piercingly blue eyes behind half-moon 
spectacles, the crooked nose: Ever
ything was as he had remembered 
it. And yet. . . But youre dead, said Harry. 
Oh yes, said Dumbledore matter-of-factly. 

Then . . . Im dead too? 
Ah, said Dumbledore, smiling st
ill more broadly. That is the 
question, isnt it? On the whol
e, dear boy, I think not. 
They looked at each other, the old man still beaming. 
Not? repeated Harry. 
 CHAPTER  THIRTY-FIVE  708  Not, said Dumbledore. But . . . Harry raised his hand 
instinctively toward the lightning 
scar. It did not seem to be there. 
But I should have died  I didnt 
defend myself! I meant 
to let him 
kill me! And that, said Dumbledore, will, I think, have made all the 
difference. 
Happiness seemed to radiate from
 Dumbledore like light, like 
fire: Harry had never seen the man so utterly, 
so palpably content. 
Explain, said Harry. 
But you already know, said Dumbledore. He twiddled his 
thumbs together. 
I let him kill me, said Harry. Didnt I? 
You did, said Dumbledore, nodding. Go on! 
So the part of his soul 
that was in me . . . Dumbledore nodded still more en
thusiastically, urging Harry 
onward, a broad smile of encouragement on his face. 
. . . has it gone? Oh yes! said Dumbledore. Yes, he destroyed it. Your soul is 
whole, and completely your own, Harry. 
But then . . . 
Harry glanced over his shoulder to where the small, maimed 
creature trembled under the chair. 
What is that, Professor? 

Something that is beyond either of our help, said Dumble-
dore. But if Voldemort used the Kill
ing Curse, Harry started again, and nobody died for me this
 time  how can I be alive? 
I think you know, said Dumb
ledore. Think ba
ck. Remember 
what he did, in his ignorance,
 in his greed and his cruelty. 
KINGS  CROSS  709  Harry thought. He let his gaze dr
ift over his surroundings. If 
it was indeed a palace in which th
ey sat, it was an odd one, with 
chairs set in little rows and bits of
 railing here and there, and still, 
he and Dumbledore and the stunted creature under the chair were 
the only beings there. Then the answ
er rose to his lips easily, with-
out effort. 
He took my blood, said Harry. 

Precisely! said Dumbledore. 
He took your blood and rebuilt 
his living body with it! Your blood in his veins, Harry, Lilys protec-
tion inside both of you! He tethered you to life while he lives! 
I live . . . while he lives? But 
I thought . . . I thought it was the 
other way round! I thought we both had to die? Or is it the same 
thing? He was distracted by the whimpe
ring and thumping of the ago-
nized creature behind them and 
glanced back at 
it yet again. Are you sure we 
cant do anything? 
There is no help possible. 
Then explain . . . more, said Harry, and Dumbledore smiled. 
You were the seventh Horcrux,
 Harry, the Horcrux he never 
meant to make. He had r
endered his soul so un
stable that it broke 
apart when he committed those acts of unspeakable evil, the murder 
of your parents, the attempted kill
ing of a child. But what escaped 
from that room was even less than 
he knew. He left more than his 
body behind. He left part of hims
elf latched to you, the would-be 
victim who had survived. And his knowledge remained wo
efully incomplete, Harry! That 
which Voldemort does not value, he
 takes no trouble to compre-
hend. Of house-elves and childrens tales, of love, loyalty, and in-

nocence, Voldemort knows 
and understands nothing. 
Nothing.
 That 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-FIVE  710  they all have a power beyond his 
own, a power beyond the reach of 
any magic, is a truth 
he has never grasped. He took your blood be
lieving it would stre
ngthen him. He took 
into his body a tiny part of the 
enchantment your mother laid upon 
you when she died for you. His body
 keeps her sacrifice alive, and 
while that enchantment survives, so
 do you and so does Voldemorts 
one last hope for himself. 
Dumbledore smiled at Harry, 
and Harry stared at him. 
And you knew this? Yo
u knew  all along? 
I guessed. But my guesses have 
usually been good, said Dumble-
dore happily, and they sat in silence 
for what seemed like a long time, 
while the creature behind them co
ntinued to whimper and tremble. 
Theres more, said Harry. There
s more to it. Why did my wand 
break the wand he borrowed? 
As to that, I cannot be sure. 

Have a guess, then, said 
Harry, and Dumbledore laughed. What you must understand, Har
ry, is that you and Lord Vol-
demort have journeyed together into realms of magic hitherto un-
known and untested. But here is wh
at I think happened, and it is 
unprecedented, and no wandmaker 
could, I think, ever have pre-
dicted it or explained it to Voldemort. Without meaning to, as you now know, Lord Voldemort doubled 
the bond between you when he re
turned to a human form. A part 
of his soul was still attached to 
yours, and, thinking to strengthen 
himself, he took a part of your moth
ers sacrifice into himself. If he 
could only have understood the pr
ecise and terrible power of that 
sacrifice, he would not, perhaps, ha
ve dared to touch your blood. . . . 
But then, if he had been able to 
understand, he could not be Lord 
Voldemort, and might never 
have murdered at all. KINGS  CROSS  711  Having ensured this two-fold 
connection, having wrapped your 
destinies together more securely than ever two wizards were joined 

in history, Voldemort proceeded to
 attack you with a wand that 
shared a core with yours. An
d now something very strange hap-
pened, as we know. The cores reac
ted in a way that Lord Volde-
mort, who never knew that your wa
nd was twin of his, had never 
expected. 
He was more afraid than you were
 that night, Harry. You had ac-
cepted, even embraced, the possibil
ity of death, something Lord Vol-
demort has never been able to do
. Your courage won, your wand 
overpowered his. And in doing so, something happened between 
those wands, something 
that echoed the rela
tionship between their 
masters. 
I believe that your wand imbi
bed some of the power and quali-
ties of Voldemorts wand that night, which is to say that it contained 

a little of Voldemort himself. So
 your wand recognized him when 
he pursued you, recognized a man who was both kin and mortal 
enemy, and it regurgitated some 
of his own magic against him, 
magic much more powerful than anything Luciuss wand had ever 
performed. Your wand now contained the power of your enormous 

courage and of Voldemorts own deadly skill: What chance did that 
poor stick of Lucius Malfoys stand? But if my wand was so powerf
ul, how come Hermione was able 
to break it? asked Harry. 
My dear boy, its rema
rkable effects were directed only at Vol-
demort, who had tampered so ill-advisedly with the deepest laws 
of magic. Only toward him was 
that wand abnormally powerful. 
Otherwise it was a wand like any 
other . . . though a good one, I 
am sure, Dumbledore finished kindly. 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-FIVE  712  Harry sat in thought for a long ti
me, or perhaps seconds. It was 
very hard to be sure of 
things like time, here. He killed me with your wand. 
He failed to kill you with my wand, Dumbledore corrected 
Harry. I think we can 
agree that you are not dead  though, of 
course, he added, as if fearing he had been discourteous, I do not 
minimize your sufferings, whic
h I am sure were severe. 
I feel great at the moment, th
ough, said Harry, looking down 
at his clean, unblemished hand
s. Where are we, exactly? Well, I was going to ask you that, said Dumbledore, looking 
around. Where would yo
u say that we are? 
Until Dumbledore had asked, Ha
rry had not known. Now, how-
ever, he found that he had 
an answer ready to give. 
It looks, he said slow
ly, like Kings Cross station. Except a lot 
cleaner and empty, and 
there are no trains as far as I can see. 
Kings Cross station! Dumbledore was chuckling immoderately. 
Good gracious, really? Well, where do you think we ar
e? asked Harry, a little defen-
sively. My dear boy, I have no idea. This is, as they say, 
your party. 
Harry had no idea what this mean
t; Dumbledore was being infu-
riating. He glared at him, then 
remembered a much more pressing 
question than that of their current location. The Deathly Hallows, he said, an
d he was glad to see that the 
words wiped the smile fr
om Dumbledores face. 
Ah, yes, he said. He ev
en looked a little worried. 
Well? 
For the first time since Harry had met Dumbledore, he looked  
 KINGS  CROSS  713  less than an old man, much less. He
 looked fleetingly like a small 
boy caught in wrongdoing. 
Can you forgive me? he said. Can you forgive me for not trust-
ing you? For not telling you? Harry,
 I only feared that you would fail 
as I had failed. I only dreaded th
at you would make my mistakes. 
I crave your pardon, Harry. I have 
known, for some time now, that 
you are the better man. What are you talking about? aske
d Harry, startled by Dumble-
dores tone, by the sudd
en tears in his eyes. 
The Hallows, the Hallows, murmured Dumbledore. A desper-
ate mans dream! But theyre real! 
Real, and dangerous, and a lure
 for fools, said Dumbledore. 
And I was such a fool. But you kn
ow, dont you? I have no secrets 
from you anymore. You know. 
What do I know? Dumbledore turned his whole body to face Harry, and tears still 
sparkled in the brilliantly blue eyes. 
Master of death, Harry, master 
of Death! Was I better, ulti-
mately, than Voldemort? Of course you were, said Ha
rry. Of course
  how can you 
ask that? You never killed if you could avoid it! 
True, true, said Dumbledore, 
and he was like a child seeking 
reassurance. Yet I 
too sought a way to 
conquer death, Harry. 
Not the way he did, said Harry.
 After all his anger at Dumble-
dore, how odd it was to sit here, b
eneath the high, vaulted ceiling, 
and defend Dumbledore from himsel
f. Hallows, not Horcruxes. 
Hallows, murmured Dumbledore, not Horcruxes. Precisely. 
 CHAPTER  THIRTY-FIVE  714  There was a pause. The creature behind them whimpered, but 
Harry no longer looked around. 
Grindelwald was looking fo
r them too? he asked. 
Dumbledore closed his eyes for a moment and nodded. It was the thing, above all, that dr
ew us together, he said quietly. 
Two clever, arrogant boys with 
a shared obsession. He wanted to 
come to Godrics Holl
ow, as I am sure you have guessed, because 
of the grave of Ignotus Peverell. He
 wanted to explore the place the 
third brother had died. 
So its true? asked Harry. All 
of it? The Peverell brothers  
 were the three brothers of 
the tale, said Dumbledore, nod-
ding. Oh yes, I think so. Whethe
r they met Death on a lonely 
road . . . I think it more likely that the Peverell brothers were simply 
gifted, dangerous wizards who succ
eeded in creating those power-
ful objects. The story of them 
being Deaths own Hallows seems 
to me the sort of legend that might have sprung up around such 
creations. 
The Cloak, as you know now, 
traveled down through the ages, 
father to son, mother to daughter, right down to Ignotuss last liv-
ing descendant, who was born, as 
Ignotus was, in the village of 
Godrics Hollow. Dumbledore smiled at Harry. 
Me? 
You. You have guessed, I know, 
why the Cloak was in my posses-
sion on the night your parents died
. James had showed it to me just 
a few days previously. It explained
 much of his undetected wrong-
doing at school! I could hardly be
lieve what I was seeing. I asked 
to borrow it, to examine it. I had 
long since given up my dream of 
uniting the Hallows, but I could no
t resist, could not help taking a 
KINGS  CROSS  715  closer look. . . . It was a Cloak th
e likes of which I had never seen, 
immensely old, perfect in every respect . . . and then your father 

died, and I had two Hallows at last, all to myself! 
His tone was unbearably bitter. 
The Cloak wouldnt have helped
 them survive, though, Harry 
said quickly. Voldemort knew 
where my mum and dad were. The 
Cloak couldnt have ma
de them curse-proof. True, sighed Dumbledore. True. 
Harry waited, but Dumbledore did 
not speak, so he prompted 
him. So youd given up looking fo
r the Hallows when you saw the Cloak? 
Oh yes, said Dumbledore faintly. It seemed that he forced him-
self to meet Harrys eyes. You
 know what happened. You know. 
You cannot despise me more 
than I despise myself. 
But I dont despise you  
Then you should, said Dumbledore. He drew a deep breath. 
You know the secret of my sister
s ill health, what those Muggles 
did, what she became. You know 
how my poor father sought re-
venge, and paid the price, died in Azkaban. You know how my 

mother gave up her own 
life to care for Ariana. 
I resented it, Harry. 
Dumbledore stated it baldly, cold
ly. He was looking now over the 
top of Harrys head, into the distance. 
I was gifted, I was brilliant. I wanted to escape. I wanted to 
shine. I wanted glory. 
Do not misunderstand me, he said, and pain crossed the face 
so that he looked ancient again. 
I loved them. I loved my parents, 
I loved my brother and my sister
, but I was selfish, Harry, more 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-FIVE  716  selfish than you, who are a remarkably selfless person, could pos-
sibly imagine. 
So that, when my mother died, an
d I was left the responsibility 
of a damaged sister and a wayward br
other, I returned to my village 
in anger and bitterness. Trapped 
and wasted, I thought! And then, 
of course, he came. . . . 
Dumbledore looked directly 
into Harrys eyes again. 
Grindelwald. You cannot imagine how his ideas caught me, 
Harry, inflamed me. Muggles forced
 into subservience. We wizards 
triumphant. Grindelwald and I, th
e glorious young leaders of the 
revolution. 
Oh, I had a few scruples. I assuaged my conscience with empty 
words. It would all be for the 
greater good, and any harm done 
would be repaid a hundredfold in 
benefits for wizards. Did I know, 
in my heart of hearts, what Geller
t Grindelwald was? I think I did, 
but I closed my eyes. If the plans 
we were making came to fruition, 
all my dreams would come true. 
And at the heart of our schemes, the Deathly Hallows! How 
they fascinated him, how they fasc
inated both of us! The unbeatable 
wand, the weapon that would lead
 us to power! The Resurrection 
Stone  to him, though I pretended
 not to know it, it meant an 
army of Inferi! To me, I confess, it meant the return of my parents, 
and the lifting of all responsibility from my shoulders. 
And the Cloak . . . somehow, we
 never discussed the Cloak much, 
Harry. Both of us could conceal ourselves well enough without the 
Cloak, the true magic of which, of course, is that it can be used to 
protect and shield others as well 
as its owner. I thought that, if we 
ever found it, it might be useful 
in hiding Ariana, but our interest 
in the Cloak was mainly that it completed the trio, for the legend 
KINGS  CROSS  717  said that the man who united all 
three objects would then be truly 
master of death, 
which we took to mean invincible. 
Invincible masters of death,
 Grindelwald and Dumbledore! 
Two months of insanity, of cruel dreams, and neglect of the only 
two members of my family left to me. 
And then . . . you know what 
happened. Reality returned in 
the form of my rough, unlettered
, and infinitely more admirable 
brother. I did not want to hear th
e truths he shouted at me. I did 
not want to hear that I could not 
set forth to seek Hallows with a 
fragile and unstable sister in tow. 
The argument became a fight. 
Grindelwald lost control. That 
which I had always sensed in him,
 though I pretended not to, now 
sprang into terrible being. And Ariana
 . . . after all my mothers care 
and caution . . . lay de
ad upon the floor. 
Dumbledore gave a little gasp and 
began to cry in earnest. Harry 
reached out and was glad to find th
at he could touch him: He gripped 
his arm tightly and Dumbledore 
gradually regained control. 
Well, Grindelwald fled, as anyo
ne but I could have predicted. 
He vanished, with his plans for seizing power, and his schemes for 
Muggle torture, and his dreams of
 the Deathly Hallows, dreams in 
which I had encouraged him and help
ed him. He ran, while I was 
left to bury my sister, and learn to
 live with my guilt and my terrible 
grief, the price of my shame. 
Years passed. There were rumors about him. They said he had 
procured a wand of immense power.
 I, meanwhile, was offered the 
post of Minister of Magic, not on
ce, but several times. Naturally, I 
refused. I had learned that I was not to be trusted with power. 
But youd have been better, mu
ch better, than Fudge or Scrim-
geour! burst out Harry. 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-FIVE  718  Would I? asked Dumbledore heavil
y. I am not so sure. I had 
proven, as a very young man, that power was my weakness and my 

temptation. It is a curious thing, Harry, but perhaps those who 
are best suited to power are thos
e who have never sought it. Those 
who, like you, have leadership thrust upon them, and take up the 
mantle because they must, and find to their own surprise that they 
wear it well. I was safer at Hogwarts. I think I was a good teacher  You were the best  
 you are very kind, Harry. Bu
t while I busied myself with 
the training of young wizards, Grindelwald was raising an army. 
They say he feared me, and perhaps he
 did, but less, I think, than I 
feared him. 
Oh, not death, said Dumbledor
e, in answer to Harrys ques-
tioning look. Not what he could 
do to me magically. I knew that 
we were evenly matched, perhaps 
that I was a shade more skillful. 
It was the truth I feared. You see, 
I never knew which of us, in that 
last, horrific fight, had actually cast
 the curse that killed my sister. 
You may call me cowardly: You wo
uld be right. Harry, I dreaded 
beyond all things the knowledge 
that it had been I who brought 
about her death, not merely thro
ugh my arrogance and stupidity, 
but that I actually struck the 
blow that snuffed out her life. I think he knew it, I think he 
knew what frightened me. I de-
layed meeting him until 
finally, it would have
 been too shameful 
to resist any longer. People were 
dying and he seemed unstoppable, 
and I had to do 
what I could. 
Well, you know what happened next. I won the duel. I won the 
wand. 
 KINGS  CROSS  719  Another silence. Harry did no
t ask whether Dumbledore had ever found out who struck Ariana 
dead. He did not want to know, 
and even less did he want Dumbledore 
to have to tell him. At last 
he knew what Dumbledore would have seen when he looked in the 
Mirror of Erised, and why Dumble
dore had been so understanding 
of the fascination it ha
d exercised over Harry. They sat in silence for a long time, and the whimperings of the 
creature behind them barely disturbed Harry anymore. 
At last he said, Grindelwald tried to stop Voldemort going after 
the wand. He lied, you know, pr
etended he had never had it. Dumbledore nodded, looking down at his lap, tears still glitter-
ing on the crooked nose. 
They say he showed remorse in la
ter years, alone in his cell at 
Nurmengard. I hope that it is true
. I would like to think he did feel 
the horror and shame of what he had done. Perhaps that lie to Vol-

demort was his attempt to make 
amends . . . to prevent Voldemort 
from taking the Hallow . . . . . . or maybe from breaking in
to your tomb? suggested Harry, 
and Dumbledore dabbed his eyes. After another short pause Harry said, You tried to use the Res-
urrection Stone. 
Dumbledore nodded. When I discovered it, after all th
ose years, buried in the aban-
doned home of the Gaunts  the Ha
llow I had craved most of all, 
though in my youth I had wanted 
it for very different reasons  I 
lost my head, Harry. I quite forgot 
that it was now a Horcrux, that 
the ring was sure to ca
rry a curse. I picked it
 up, and I put it on, 
and for a second I imagined that 
I was about to see Ariana, and  
 CHAPTER  THIRTY-FIVE  720  my mother, and my father, and to
 tell them how very, very sorry I 
was. . . . I was such a fool, Harry. After a
ll those years I had learned noth-
ing. I was unworthy to unite the Deathly Hallows, I had proved it 
time and again, and he
re was final proof. Why? said Harry. It was natu
ral! You wanted to see them 
again. Whats wrong with that? Maybe a man in a million coul
d unite the Hallows, Harry. I 
was fit only to possess the meanest of them, the least extraordinary. 
I was fit to own the Elder Wand, an
d not to boast of it, and not to 
kill with it. I was permitted to tame
 and to use it, be
cause I took it, 
not for gain, but to save others from it. 
But the Cloak, I took 
out of vain curiosity, and so it could never 
have worked for me as it works for you, its true owner. The stone I 
would have used in an attempt to 
drag back those who are at peace, 
rather than to enable my self-sacrifice, as you did. You are the worthy 
possessor of the Hallows. 
Dumbledore patted Harrys hand, and Harry looked up at the old 
man and smiled; he could not help
 himself. How could he remain 
angry with Du
mbledore now? Why did you have to make it so difficult? 
Dumbledores smile was tremulous. 
I am afraid I counted on Miss 
Granger to slow you up, Harry. 
I was afraid that your hot head
 might dominate your good heart. 
I was scared that, if presented ou
tright with the facts about those 
tempting objects, you might seize th
e Hallows as I did, at the wrong 
time, for the wrong reasons. If you laid hands on them, I wanted you 
to possess them safely. You are the true master of death, because the 

true master does not seek to run aw
ay from Death. He accepts that 
KINGS  CROSS  721  he must die, and understands that 
there are far, far worse things in 
the living world than dying. And Voldemort never kn
ew about the Hallows? 
I do not think so, because he did not recognize the Resurrection 
Stone he turned into a Horcrux.
 But even if he had known about 
them, Harry, I doubt that he would 
have been interested in any ex-
cept the first. He would not think 
that he needed the Cloak, and as 
for the stone, whom would he want to bring back from the dead? 
He fears the dead. 
He does not love. But you expected him to go after the wand? 

I have been sure that he would 
try, ever since your wand beat 
Voldemorts in the graveyard of Little Hangleton. At first, he was 
afraid that you had conquered him 
by superior skill. Once he had 
kidnapped Ollivander, however, he 
discovered the existence of the 
twin cores. He thought that explained everything. Yet the borrowed 

wand did no better against yours! 
So Voldemort, instead of asking 
himself what quality it was in yo
u that had made your wand so 
strong, what gift you possessed that 
he did not, naturally set out to 
find the one wand that, they said
, would beat any other. For him, 
the Elder Wand has become an obse
ssion to rival his obsession with 
you. He believes that the Elder Wand removes his last weakness and 
makes him truly invincible
. Poor Severus . . . If you planned your death with
 Snape, you me
ant him to end 
up with the Elder 
Wand, didnt you? 
I admit that was my intention,
 said Dumbledore, but it did 
not work as I in
tended, did it? No, said Harry. That bit didnt work out. 
The creature behind them jerked and moaned, and Harry and 
Dumbledore sat without talking for the longest time yet. The 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-FIVE  722  realization of what would happen 
next settled gradually over Harry 
in the long minutes, like softly falling snow. Ive got to go back, havent I? 
That is up to you. 
Ive got a choice? 
Oh yes. Dumbledore smiled at 
him. We are in Kings Cross, 
you say? I think that if you deci
ded not to go back, you would be 
able to . . . lets say . . . board a train. 
And where would it take me? On, said Dumbledore simply. 

Silence again. Voldemorts got the Elder Wand. 
True. Voldemort has the Elder Wand. 
But you want me to go back? 
I think, said Dumbledore, tha
t if you choose to return, there 
is a chance that he may be fini
shed for good. I cannot promise it. 
But I know this, Harry, that you have less to fear from returning 
here than he does. 
Harry glanced again at the raw-l
ooking thing that trembled and 
choked in the shadow beneath the distant chair. 
Do not pity the dead, Harry. Pity the living, and, above all, those 
who live without love. By returning, you may ensure that fewer souls 
are maimed, fewer families are torn
 apart. If that seems to you a 
worthy goal, then we say good-bye for the present. Harry nodded and sighed. Leaving this place would not be nearly 
as hard as walking into the forest 
had been, but it was warm and light 
and peaceful here, and he knew that he was heading back to pain and 
the fear of more loss. He stood up, and Dumbledore did the same, 

and they looked for a long mome
nt into each others faces. 
KINGS  CROSS  723  Tell me one last thing, said Ha
rry. Is this real? Or has this 
been happening in
side my head? 
Dumbledore beamed at him, and his voice sounded loud and 
strong in Harrys ears even though
 the bright mist was descending 
again, obscuring his figure. 
Of course it is happening inside your head, Harry, but why on 
earth should that mean 
that it is not real? 
C H A P T E R  T H I R T Y - S I X   724  THE FLAW IN THE PLAN 
   e was lying facedown on the ground again. The smell of 
the forest filled his nostrils. 
He could feel the cold hard 
ground beneath his cheek, and the 
hinge of his glasses, which had 
been knocked sideways by the fall,
 cutting into his temple. Every 
inch of him ached, and the plac
e where the Killing Curse had hit 
him felt like the bruise of an iron
-clad punch. He did not stir, but 
remained exactly where he had fallen,
 with his left arm bent out at 
an awkward angle and his mouth gaping. 
He had expected to hear cheers of
 triumph and jubilation at his 
death, but instead hurried footstep
s, whispers, and solicitous mur-
murs filled the air. 
My Lord . . . my Lord
 . . . It was Bellatrixs voice, and she 
spoke as if to a lover. Harry did 
not dare open his eyes, but allowed 
his other senses to explore his 
predicament. He knew that his wa
nd was still stowed beneath his 
robes because he could feel it pr
essed between his chest and the 
H THE  FLAW  IN THE  PLAN  725  ground. A slight cushioning effect 
in the area of his stomach told 
him that the Invisibility Cloak was 
also there, stuffed out of sight. 
My Lord
 . . . That will do, said Voldemorts voice. 
More footsteps: Several people we
re backing away from the same 
spot. Desperate to see what wa
s happening and why, Harry opened 
his eyes by a millimeter. 
Voldemort seemed to be getting 
to his feet. Various Death Eat-
ers were hurrying away from him, returning to the crowd lining 
the clearing. Bellatrix alone rema
ined behind, kneeling beside 
Voldemort. 
Harry closed his eyes again and considered what he had seen. The 
Death Eaters had been huddled ar
ound Voldemort, who seemed to 
have fallen to the ground. Some
thing had happened when he had 
hit Harry with the Killing Curse.
 Had Voldemort too collapsed? 
It seemed like it. And both of th
em had fallen briefly unconscious 
and both of them ha
d now returned. . . . My Lord, let me  
I do not require assistance, sa
id Voldemort coldly, and though 
he could not see it, Harry pictured
 Bellatrix withdr
awing a helpful hand. The boy . . . Is he dead? 
There was complete silence in th
e clearing. Nobody approached 
Harry, but he felt their concentrate
d gaze; it seemed to press him 
harder into the ground, and he was 
terrified a finger or an eyelid 
might twitch. 
You, said Voldemort, and ther
e was a bang and a small shriek 
of pain. Examine him. Tell me whether he is dead. 
Harry did not know who had been sent to verify. He could 
only lie there, with his heart thum
ping traitorously, and wait to be 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-SIX  726  examined, but at the same time 
noting, small comfort though it 
was, that Voldemort was wary of
 approaching him, that Voldemort 
suspected that all had not gone to plan. . . . 
Hands, softer than he had been 
expecting, touched Harrys face, 
pulled back an eyelid, crept bene
ath his shirt, down to his chest, 
and felt his heart. He could hear 
the womans fast breathing, her 
long hair tickled his face. He k
new that she coul
d feel the steady pounding of life 
against his ribs. 
Is Draco alive? Is he in the castle
? The whisper was barely audible; her lips were an inch from his 
ear, her head bent so low that her 
long hair shielded his face from 
the onlookers. 
Yes, he breathed back. 
He felt the hand on his chest 
contract; her nails pierced him. 
Then it was withdrawn. She had sat up. He is dead! Narcissa Malfoy called to the watchers. 
And now they shouted, now they yelled in triumph and stamped 
their feet, and through his eyelids, Harry saw bursts of red and silver light shoot into the air in celebration. 
Still feigning death on the ground
, he understood. Narcissa knew 
that the only way she would be 
permitted to enter Hogwarts, and 
find her son, was as part of the conquering army. She no longer cared 
whether Voldemort won. 
You see? screeched Voldemort over the tumult. Harry Potter is 
dead by my hand, and no man al
ive can threaten me now! Watch! 
Crucio! Harry had been expecting it, knew 
his body would not be allowed 
to remain unsullied upon the forest
 floor; it must be subjected to 
humiliation to prove Voldemorts vi
ctory. He was lifted into the 
THE  FLAW  IN THE  PLAN  727  air, and it took all his determinat
ion to remain limp, yet the pain 
he expected did not come. He was thrown once, twice, three times 

into the air: His glasses flew off 
and he felt his wand slide a little 
beneath his robes, but he kept hi
mself floppy and lifeless, and when 
he fell to the ground for the last ti
me, the clearing echoed with jeers 
and shrieks of laughter. 
Now, said Voldemort, we 
go to the castle, and show 
them what has become of their 
hero. Who shall drag the body? 
No  Wait  
There was a fresh outbreak of laughter, and after a few moments 
Harry felt the ground 
trembling beneath him. 
You carry him, Voldemort said. H
e will be nice and visible in 
your arms, will he not? Pick up your little friend, Hagrid. And the 
glasses  put on the glasses  
he must be recognizable  
Someone slammed Harrys glasses ba
ck onto his face with deliber-
ate force, but the enormous hands th
at lifted him in
to the air were 
exceedingly gentle. Harry could feel 
Hagrids arms trembling with 
the force of his heaving sobs; grea
t tears splashed down upon him as 
Hagrid cradled Harry in his arms, and Harry did not dare, by move-
ment or word, to intimate to Hagr
id that all was not, yet, lost. 
Move, said Voldemort, and Hagrid stumbled forward, forcing 
his way through the close-growing trees, back through the forest. 
Branches caught at Harrys hair and robes, but he lay quiescent, his 

mouth lolling open, his eyes shut
, and in the darkness, while the 
Death Eaters crowed all around
 them, and while Hagrid sobbed 
blindly, nobody looked to see wh
ether a pulse beat
 in the exposed 
neck of Harry Potter. . . . 
The two giants crashed along 
behind the Death Eaters; Harry 
could hear trees creaking and fallin
g as they passed; they made so 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-SIX  728  much din that birds rose shrieking into the sky, and even the jeers of 
the Death Eaters were drowned. Th
e victorious procession marched 
on toward the open ground, and af
ter a while Harry could tell, by the lightening of the darkness thro
ugh his closed eyelids, that the 
trees were beginning to thin. 
BANE! 
Hagrids unexpected bellow nea
rly forced Harrys eyes open. 
Happy now, are yeh, that yeh didn fight, yeh cowardly bunch o 
nags? Are yeh happy Harry Potters  d-dead . . . ? 
Hagrid could not continue, but broke down in fresh tears. Harry 
wondered how many centaurs were 
watching their procession pass; 
he dared not open his eyes to look. Some of the Death Eaters called 
insults at the centaurs as they left
 them behind. A little later, Harry 
sensed, by a freshening of the air, that they had reached the edge 
of the forest. Stop. 
Harry thought that Hagrid must ha
ve been forced to obey Volde-
morts command, because he lurche
d a little. And now a chill settled 
over them where they stood, and 
Harry heard the rasping breath of 
the dementors that patrolled the outer trees. They would not affect 

him now. The fact of his own survival burned inside him, a talisman 
against them, as though his fathers 
stag kept guardian in his heart. 
Someone passed close by Harry, an
d he knew that it was Volde-
mort himself because he spoke a mo
ment later, his voice magically 
magnified so that it swelled through the grounds, crashing upon 
Harrys eardrums. Harry Potter is dead. He was killed as he ran away, trying to 
save himself while you lay down your lives for him. We bring you 

his body as proof that your hero is gone. 
THE  FLAW  IN THE  PLAN  729  The battle is won. Yo
u have lost half of your fighters. My Death 
Eaters outnumber you, and the Bo
y Who Lived is finished. There 
must be no more war. Anyone who 
continues to resist, man, woman, 
or child, will be slaughtered, as will every member of their fam-
ily. Come out of the castle now, 
kneel before me, and you shall be 
spared. Your parents and children, yo
ur brothers and sisters will live 
and be forgiven, and you will join me in the new world we shall 

build together. 
There was silence in the grounds and from the castle. Voldemort 
was so close to him that Harry did not dare open his eyes again. 
Come, said Voldemort, and Harry heard him move ahead, and 
Hagrid was forced to follow. Now 
Harry opened his eyes a fraction, 
and saw Voldemort striding in front of them, wearing the great snake 
Nagini around his shoulders, now free of her enchanted cage. But 
Harry had no possibility of extracti
ng the wand concealed under his 
robes without being noticed by the Death Eaters, who marched on 
either side of them through the slowly lightening darkness. . . . 
Harry, sobbed Hagrid. Oh,
 Harry . . . Harry . . . 
Harry shut his eyes tight again. He knew that they were ap-
proaching the castle and strained his
 ears to distinguish, above the 
gleeful voices of the Death Eaters an
d their tramping footsteps, signs 
of life from those within. 
Stop. 

The Death Eaters came to a halt: Harry heard them spreading 
out in a line facing 
the open front doors of 
the school. He could 
see, even through his closed lids, 
the reddish glow that meant light 
streamed upon him from the entrance hall. He waited. Any mo-
ment, the people for whom he had 
tried to die would see him, lying 
apparently dead, in Hagrids arms. 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-SIX  730  NO! 
The scream was the more terrible 
because he had never expected 
or dreamed that Professor McGona
gall could make such a sound. 
He heard another woman laughing 
nearby, and knew that Bellatrix 
gloried in McGonagalls despair. He
 squinted again for a single sec-
ond and saw the open doorway filling with people, as the survivors 
of the battle came out onto the fr
ont steps to face their vanquishers 
and see the truth of Harrys death 
for themselves. He saw Voldemort 
standing a little in front of him, stroking Naginis head with a single white finger. He clos
ed his eyes again. 
No! 
No! Harry! HARRY! Rons, Hermiones, and Ginnys vo
ices were worse than McGona-
galls; Harry wanted nothing more than to call back, yet he made 

himself lie silent, and their cries ac
ted like a trigger; the crowd of 
survivors took up the cause, sc
reaming and yelling abuse at the 
Death Eaters, until  SILENCE! cried Voldemort, and there was a bang and a flash 
of bright light, and silence was forc
ed upon them all. It is over! Set 
him down, Hagrid, at my 
feet, where he belongs! 
Harry felt himself lowe
red onto the grass. 
You see? said Voldemort, and 
Harry felt him striding backward and forward right beside the place where he lay. Harry Potter is 
dead! Do you understand now, deluded ones? He was nothing, ever, 
but a boy who relied on others to
 sacrifice themselves for him! 
He beat you! yelled Ron, and the charm broke, and the defend-
ers of Hogwarts were shouting and screaming again until a second, 

more powerful bang extinguished their voices once more. 
THE  FLAW  IN THE  PLAN  731  He was killed while trying to sn
eak out of the castle grounds, 
said Voldemort, and there was relish in his voice for the lie, killed 

while trying to save himself  
But Voldemort broke off: Harry he
ard a scuffle and a shout, then 
another bang, a flash of light, an
d a grunt of pain; he opened his 
eyes an infinitesimal amount. Someone had broken free of the crowd 
and charged at Voldemort: Harry saw the figure hit the ground, 

Disarmed, Voldemort throwing th
e challengers wand aside and 
laughing. And who is this? he said in his soft snakes hiss. Who has vol-
unteered to demonstrate what happens to those who continue to 
fight when the battle is lost? Bellatrix gave a delighted laugh. 
It is Neville Longbottom, my Lord! The boy who has been giving 
the Carrows so much trouble! Th
e son of the Aurors, remember? 
Ah, yes, I remember, said Vold
emort, looking down at Neville, 
who was struggling back to his 
feet, unarmed and unprotected, standing in the no-mans-land be
tween the survivors and the Death 
Eaters. But you are a pureblood, arent you, my brave boy? Volde-
mort asked Neville, who stood faci
ng him, his empty hands curled 
in fists. 
So what if I am? said Neville loudly. 
You show spirit and bravery, an
d you come of noble stock. You 
will make a very valuable Death Eater. We need your kind, Neville 
Longbottom. 
Ill join you when hell freezes 
over, said Neville. Dumble-
dores Army! he shouted, and th
ere was an answering cheer from 
the crowd, whom Voldemorts Silencing Charms seemed unable to 

hold. 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-SIX  732  Very well, said Voldemort, and Harry heard more danger in 
the silkiness of his voice than in th
e most powerful cu
rse. If that is 
your choice, Longbottom, we revert
 to the original plan. On your 
head, he said quietly, be it. 
Still watching through his lash
es, Harry saw Voldemort wave his 
wand. Seconds later, out of one of
 the castles shattered windows, 
something that looked like a miss
hapen bird flew through the half 
light and landed in Voldemorts 
hand. He shook the mildewed ob-
ject by its pointed end and it da
ngled, empty and ragged: the Sort-
ing Hat. 
There will be no more Sorting 
at Hogwarts School, said Vol-
demort. There will be no more Houses. The emblem, shield, and 
colors of my noble ancestor, Salaza
r Slytherin, will suffice for every-
one. Wont they, Neville Longbottom? 
He pointed his wand at Neville, who grew rigid and still, then 
forced the hat onto Nevilles head, so that it slipped down below his 
eyes. There were movements from the watching crowd in front of 
the castle, and as one, the Death Ea
ters raised their wands, holding 
the fighters of Hogwarts at bay. 
Neville here is now going to 
demonstrate what happens to any-
one foolish enough to continue to oppose me, said Voldemort, and 
with a flick of his wand, he caus
ed the Sorting Hat to burst into 
flames. Screams split the dawn, and Neville was aflame, 
rooted to the spot, 
unable to move, and Harry could not bear it: He must act  
And then many things happ
ened at the same moment. 
They heard uproar from the dist
ant boundary of the school as 
what sounded like hundreds of people came swarming over the out-

of-sight walls and pelted toward th
e castle, uttering loud war cries. 
THE  FLAW  IN THE  PLAN  733  At the same time, Grawp came lumbering around the side of the 
castle and yelled, HAGGER! His cry was answered by roars from 

Voldemorts giants: They ran at Grawp like bull elephants, making 
the earth quake. Then came hoov
es and the twangs of bows, and 
arrows were suddenly falling amongst the Death Eaters, who broke 
ranks, shouting their surprise. 
Harry pulled the Invisibility Cloak 
from inside his robes, swung it over himself, and sprang to his feet, 

as Neville moved too. In one swift, fluid motion, Nevi
lle broke free of the Body-Bind 
Curse upon him; the flaming hat fe
ll off him and he drew from its 
depths something silver, with 
a glittering, rubied handle  
The slash of the silver blade coul
d not be heard over the roar of 
the oncoming crowd or the sounds 
of the clashing giants or of the 
stampeding centaurs, and yet it se
emed to draw every eye. With a 
single stroke Neville sliced off 
the great snakes head, which spun 
high into the air, gleaming in th
e light flooding from the entrance 
hall, and Voldemorts mouth was open in a scream of fury that 
nobody could hear, and the snakes 
body thudded to the ground at 
his feet  
Hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak, Harry cast a Shield Charm 
between Neville and Voldemort befo
re the latter could raise his 
wand. Then, over the screams an
d the roars and the thunderous 
stamps of the battling giants, Hagrids yell came loudest of all. 
HARRY! Hagrid shouted. 
HARRY  WHERES HARRY? 
Chaos reigned. The charging centaurs were scattering the Death 
Eaters, everyone was fleeing the giants stamping feet, and nearer 
and nearer thundered the reinforcements that had come from who 
knew where; Harry saw great winged
 creatures soaring around the 
heads of Voldemorts giants, thes
trals and Buckbeak the hippogriff 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-SIX  734  scratching at their eyes while 
Grawp punched and pummeled them; 
and now the wizards, defenders of Hogwarts and Death Eaters alike, 
were being forced back into the 
castle. Harry was shooting jinxes 
and curses at any Death Eater he 
could see, and they crumpled, not 
knowing what or who had hit them, 
and their bodies were trampled 
by the retreating crowd. 
Still hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak, Harry was buffeted 
into the entrance hall: He was searching for Voldemort and saw 
him across the room, firing spells fr
om his wand as he backed into 
the Great Hall, still screaming inst
ructions to his followers as he 
sent curses flying left and righ
t; Harry cast more Shield Charms, 
and Voldemorts would-be victims,
 Seamus Finnigan and Hannah 
Abbott, darted past him into the 
Great Hall, where they joined the 
fight already flouri
shing inside it. 
And now there were more, even mo
re people storming up the 
front steps, and Harry saw Char
lie Weasley overtaking Horace 
Slughorn, who was still wearing his emerald pajamas. They seemed 
to have returned at th
e head of what looked like the families and 
friends of every Hogwarts student 
who had remained to fight, along 
with the shopkeepers and homeowners of Hogsmeade. The centaurs 
Bane, Ronan, and Magorian burst in
to the hall with a great clatter 
of hooves, as behind Harry the door 
that led to the kitchens was 
blasted off its hinges. 
The house-elves of Hogwarts swarmed into the entrance hall, 
screaming and waving carving knives and cleavers, and at their head, 
the locket of Regulus Black bounci
ng on his chest, was Kreacher, 
his bullfrogs voice audible even abov
e this din: Fight! Fight! Fight 
for my Master, defender of house-el
ves! Fight the Dark Lord, in the 
name of brave Regulus! Fight! 
THE  FLAW  IN THE  PLAN  735  They were hacking and stabbing at
 the ankles and shins of Death 
Eaters, their tiny faces alive wi
th malice, and everywhere Harry 
looked Death Eaters were folding 
under sheer weight of numbers, 
overcome by spells, dragging arro
ws from wounds, stabbed in the 
leg by elves, or else simply attempting to escape, but swallowed by 
the oncoming horde. 
But it was not over yet: Harry sp
ed between duelers, past strug-
gling prisoners, and 
into the Great Hall. Voldemort was in the center of 
the battle, and he was striking 
and smiting all within reach. Harr
y could not get a clear shot, but fought his way nearer, still invi
sible, and the Great Hall became 
more and more crowded as everyo
ne who could walk forced their 
way inside. 
Harry saw Yaxley slammed to the 
floor by George and Lee Jor-
dan, saw Dolohov fall with a scream 
at Flitwicks hands, saw Walden 
Macnair thrown across the room by
 Hagrid, hit the stone wall op-
posite, and slide unconscious to the ground. He saw Ron and Neville 
bringing down Fenrir Greyback
, Aberforth Stunning Rookwood, 
Arthur and Percy flooring Thick
nesse, and Lucius and Narcissa 
Malfoy running through the crowd, not even attempting to fight, 

screaming for their son. 
Voldemort was now dueling McGonagall, Slughorn, and Kings-ley all at once, and there was cold 
hatred in his face as they wove 
and ducked around him, un
able to finish him  Bellatrix was still fighting too, 
fifty yards away from Voldemort, 
and like her master she dueled th
ree at once: Hermione, Ginny, and 
Luna, all battling their hardest, 
but Bellatrix was equal to them, 
and Harrys attention was diverted 
as a Killing Curse shot so close 
to Ginny that she missed death by an inch  
CHAPTER  THIRTY-SIX  736  He changed course, running at Bellatrix rather than Voldemort, 
but before he had gone a few 
steps he was knocked sideways. 
NOT MY DAUGHTER, YOU BITCH! 
Mrs. Weasley threw off her cloak as she ran, freeing her arms. 
Bellatrix spun on the spot, roaring with laughter at the sight of her 
new challenger. 
OUT OF MY WAY! shouted Mrs. Weasley to the three girls, 
and with a swipe of her wand she 
began to duel. Harry watched with 
terror and elation as Molly Weasley
s wand slashed and twirled, and 
Bellatrix Lestranges smile faltered 
and became a snarl. Jets of light 
flew from both wands, the floor 
around the witches feet became 
hot and cracked; both women were fighting to kill. No! Mrs. Weasley cried as a fe
w students ran forward, trying 
to come to her aid. Get back! 
Get back! She is mine! 
Hundreds of people now lined the walls, watching the two fights, 
Voldemort and his three opponents,
 Bellatrix and Molly, and Harry 
stood, invisible, torn between both
, wanting to attack and yet to 
protect, unable to be sure that he would not hit the innocent. 
What will happen to your childr
en when Ive killed you? taunted 
Bellatrix, as mad as her master, ca
pering as Mollys curses danced 
around her. When Mummys gone the same way as Freddie? 
You  will  never  touch  our  children  again! 
screamed Mrs. Weasley. 
Bellatrix laughed, the same exhil
arated laugh her cousin Sirius 
had given as he toppled backward through the veil, and suddenly 
Harry knew what wa
s going to happen 
before it did. 
Mollys curse soared beneath Bellatrixs outstretched arm and hit 
her squarely in the chest, 
directly over her heart. Bellatrixs gloating smile froze, 
her eyes seemed to bulge: For 
THE  FLAW  IN THE  PLAN  737  the tiniest space of ti
me she knew what ha
d happened, and then she toppled, and the watching 
crowd roared, and Voldemort screamed. Harry felt as though he turned in
 slow motion; he saw McGona-
gall, Kingsley, and Slughorn blas
ted backward, flailing and writh-
ing through the air, as Voldemorts 
fury at the fall of his last, best 
lieutenant exploded with the force 
of a bomb. Voldemort raised his 
wand and directed it at Molly Weasley. 
Protego
! roared Harry, and the Shield Charm expanded in the 
middle of the Hall, and Voldemort st
ared around for the source as 
Harry pulled off the Invisibility Cloak at last. 
The yell of shock, the cheers, the screams on every side of Harry! 
HES ALIVE! were stifled at once. The crowd was afraid, and si-
lence fell abruptly and completely 
as Voldemort and Harry looked at 
each other, and began, at the same
 moment, to circle each other. 
I dont want anyone else to try to help, Harry said loudly, and 
in the total silence his voice carried
 like a trumpet call. Its got to 
be like this. Its got to be me. 
Voldemort hissed. 
Potter doesnt mean that, he said, his red eyes wide. That isnt 
how he works, is it? Who are you 
going to use as a shield today, 
Potter? Nobody, said Harry simply. There
 are no more Horcruxes. Its 
just you and me. Neither can live 
while the other survives, and one 
of us is about to le
ave for good. . . . 
One of us? jeered Voldemort, 
and his whole body was taut and 
his red eyes stared, a snake that wa
s about to strike. You think it 
will be you, do you, the boy who 
has survived by accident, and be-
cause Dumbledore was 
pulling the strings? CHAPTER  THIRTY-SIX  738  Accident, was it, when my mother died to save me? asked Harry. 
They were still moving sideways, both of them, in that perfect circle, 

maintaining the same distance fr
om each other, and for Harry no 
face existed but Voldemorts. Acc
ident, when I decided to fight in 
that graveyard? Accident, that I 
didnt defend myself tonight, and 
still survived, and returned to fight again? 
Accidents! screamed Voldemort, but still he did not strike, and 
the watching crowd was frozen as if 
Petrified, and of the hundreds 
in the Hall, nobody seemed to br
eathe but they two. Accident and 
chance and the fact that you crouched and sniveled behind the 

skirts of greater men and women, and permitted me to kill them 
for you! You wont be killing anyone else
 tonight, said Harry as they 
circled, and stared into each othe
rs eyes, green into red. You wont 
be able to kill any of them ever again. Dont you get it? I was ready 

to die to stop you from hurting these people  
But you did not!  I meant to, and thats what di
d it. Ive done what my mother 
did. Theyre protected from you.
 Havent you noticed how none of 
the spells you put on them are 
binding? You can
t torture them. 
You cant touch them. You dont le
arn from your mistakes, Riddle, 
do you? You dare  
Yes, I dare, said Harry. I 
know things you dont know, Tom 
Riddle. I know lots of important things that you dont. Want to 
hear some, before you ma
ke another big mistake? 
Voldemort did not speak, but 
prowled in a circle, and Harry 
knew that he kept him temporarily mesmerized and at bay, held  
 THE  FLAW  IN THE  PLAN  739  back by the faintest possibility
 that Harry might indeed know a 
final secret. . . . Is it love again? said Voldemort,
 his snakes face jeering. Dum-
bledores favorite solution, 
love, which he claimed conquered death, 
though love did not stop him fall
ing from the tower and breaking 
like an old waxwork? 
Love, which did not prevent me stamping out 
your Mudblood mother like a co
ckroach, Potter  and nobody 
seems to love you enough to run 
forward this time and take my 
curse. So what will stop you dying now when I strike? 
Just one thing, said Harry, and 
still they circled each other, 
wrapped in each other, held apar
t by nothing but the last secret. If it is not love that will save yo
u this time, said Voldemort, you 
must believe that you have magic that I do not, or else a weapon 
more powerful than mine? 
I believe both, said Harry, an
d he saw shock flit across the 
snakelike face, though it was instantly dispelled; Voldemort began 
to laugh, and the sound was more
 frightening than his screams; 
humorless and insane, it echo
ed around the 
silent Hall. You think 
you know more magic than I do? he said. Than 
I, than Lord Voldemort, who has 
performed magic that Dumbledore 
himself never dreamed of? 
Oh, he dreamed of it, said Harry, but he knew more than you, 
knew enough not to do
 what youve done. 
You mean he was weak! screamed Voldemort. Too weak to 
dare, too weak to take what mi
ght have been his, what will be 
mine! 
No, he was cleverer than you, 
said Harry, a better wizard, a 
better man. 
 CHAPTER  THIRTY-SIX  740  I brought about the death of Albus Dumbledore! You thought you did, said Harry, but you were wrong. 
For the first time, the watching crowd stirred as the hundreds of 
people around the walls drew breath as one. 
Dumbledore is dead
! Voldemort hurled the words at Harry as 
though they would cause him unend
urable pain. His body decays 
in the marble tomb in the grounds of
 this castle, I have seen it, Pot-
ter, and he will
 not return! 
Yes, Dumbledores dead, said 
Harry calmly, but you didnt 
have him killed. He chose his own 
manner of dying, chose it months 
before he died, arranged the whol
e thing with the man you thought 
was your servant. 
What childish dream is this? sa
id Voldemort, but still he did 
not strike, and his red eyes 
did not waver from Harrys. 
Severus Snape wasnt yours, said Harry. Snape was Dumble-
dores, Dumbledores from the moment you started hunting down 
my mother. And you never realized
 it, because of the thing you 
cant understand. You never saw Sn
ape cast a Patronus, did you, 
Riddle? 
Voldemort did not answer. They continued to circle each other 
like wolves about to tear each other apart. Snapes Patronus was a doe, said Harry, the same as my moth-ers, because he loved her for nearly a
ll of his life, from the time when 
they were children. You should have realized, he said as he saw Vol-
demorts nostrils flare, he asked 
you to spare her li
fe, didnt he? 
He desired her, that
 was all, sneered Vo
ldemort, but when 
she had gone, he agreed that ther
e were other women, and of purer 
blood, worthier of him  
 THE  FLAW  IN THE  PLAN  741  Of course he told you that, 
said Harry, but he was Dumble-
dores spy from the moment you threatened her, and hes been work-

ing against you ever since! Dumbledore was already dying when 
Snape finished him! 
It matters not! shrieked Vold
emort, who had followed every 
word with rapt attention, but now 
let out a cackle of mad laughter. 
It matters not whether Snape was mine or Dumbledores, or what 

petty obstacles they tried to put in my path! I crushed them as I 
crushed your mother, Snapes supposed great 
love! Oh, but it all 
makes sense, Potter, and in wa
ys that you do not understand! Dumbledore was trying to keep
 the Elder Wand from me! He 
intended that Snape should be th
e true master of the wand! But I 
got there ahead of you, little bo
y  I reached the wand before you 
could get your hands on it, I unders
tood the truth before you caught 
up. I killed Severus Snape three ho
urs ago, and the Elder Wand, the 
Deathstick, the Wand of Destiny is
 truly mine! Dumbledores last 
plan went wrong, Harry Potter! 
Yeah, it did, said Harry. Youre 
right. But before you try to kill 
me, Id advise you to think about wh
at youve done. . . . Think, and 
try for some remorse, Riddle. . . . 
What is this? 
Of all the things that Harry had 
said to him, beyond any rev-
elation or taunt, nothing had sh
ocked Voldemort like this. Harry 
saw his pupils contract to thin sl
its, saw the skin around his eyes 
whiten. 
Its your one last chance, said Ha
rry, its all youve got left. . . . 
Ive seen what youll be otherwise. 
. . . Be a man . . 
. try . . . Try for 
some remorse. . . . 

 CHAPTER  THIRTY-SIX  742  You dare  ? said
 Voldemort again. Yes, I dare, said Harry, becau
se Dumbledores last plan hasnt 
backfired on me at 
all. Its backfired on you, Riddle. Voldemorts hand was trembling 
on the Elder Wand, and Harry 
gripped Dracos very tightly. The moment, he knew, was seconds 
away. 
That wand still isnt working pr
operly for you because you mur-
dered the wrong person. Severus Snape was never the true master 
of the Elder Wand. He never defeated Dumbledore. 
He killed  

Arent you listening? Snape never beat Dumbledore
! Dumbledores 
death was planned between them! 
Dumbledore intended to die 
undefeated, the wands last true master! If all had gone as planned, 
the wands power would have died 
with him, because it had never 
been won from him! 
But then, Potter, Dumbledore as
 good as gave me the wand! 
Voldemorts voice shook with malici
ous pleasure. I stole the wand 
from its last masters tomb! I remo
ved it against its last masters 
wishes! Its power is mine! 
You still dont get it, Riddle, 
do you? Possessing the wand isnt 
enough! Holding it, using it, doesnt make it really yours. Didnt 
you listen to Ollivander? 
The wand chooses the wizard. . . . The Elder Wand recognized a new master before Dumbledore died, someone 

who never even laid a hand on it. The new master removed the wand 
from Dumbledore against his will, 
never realizing exactly what he 
had done, or that the worlds mo
st dangerous wand had given him 
its allegiance. . . . Voldemorts chest rose and fell 
rapidly, and Harry could feel the 
curse coming, feel it building insi
de the wand pointed at his face. 
THE  FLAW  IN THE  PLAN  743  The true master 
of the Elder Wand was Draco Malfoy. Blank shock showed in Voldemort
s face for a moment, but then 
it was gone. 
But what does it matter? he said softly. Even if you are right, 
Potter, it makes no difference to 
you and me. You no longer have 
the phoenix wand: We duel on skill 
alone . . . and after I have killed 
you, I can attend to Draco Malfoy. . . . But youre too late, said Harry.
 Youve missed your chance. I 
got there first. I overpowered Drac
o weeks ago. I took this wand 
from him. 
Harry twitched the hawthorn wand
, and he felt the eyes of ev-
eryone in the 
Hall upon it. 
So it all comes down to this, do
esnt it? whispered Harry. Does 
the wand in your hand know its last master was Disarmed? Because 
if it does . . . I am the true
 master of the Elder Wand. 
A red-gold glow burst suddenly 
across the enchanted sky above 
them as an edge of dazzling sun appeared over the sill of the near-
est window. The light hit both of 
their faces at the same time, so 
that Voldemorts was suddenly a flaming blur. Harry heard the high 
voice shriek as he too yelled his be
st hope to the heavens, pointing 
Dracos wand: 
Avada Kedavra! Expelliarmus! The bang was like a cannon blas
t, and the golden flames that 
erupted between them, at the dead center of the circle they had been 
treading, marked the point wher
e the spells collided. Harry saw 
Voldemorts green jet meet his own spell, saw the Elder Wand fly 
high, dark against the sunrise, sp
inning across the 
enchanted ceiling 
like the head of Nagini, spinning 
through the air toward the master 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-SIX  744  it would not kill, who ha
d come to take full po
ssession of it at last. 
And Harry, with the unerring skill 
of the Seeker, caught the wand 
in his free hand as Voldemort fell 
backward, arms splayed, the slit 
pupils of the scarlet eyes rolling upward. Tom Riddle hit the floor 
with a mundane finality, his body
 feeble and shrunken, the white 
hands empty, the snakelike face 
vacant and unknowing. Voldemort 
was dead, killed by his own rebounding curse, and Harry stood with 
two wands in his hand, starin
g down at his enemys shell. 
One shivering second of silence,
 the shock of the moment sus-
pended: and then the tumult brok
e around Harry as the screams 
and the cheers and the roars of the 
watchers rent the air. The fierce 
new sun dazzled the windows as they thundered toward him, and 
the first to reach him were Ron and Hermione, and it was their arms 
that were wrapped around him, their incomprehensible shouts that 
deafened him. Then Ginny, Neville, 
and Luna were there, and then 
all the Weasleys and Hagrid, an
d Kingsley and McGonagall and 
Flitwick and Sprout, and Harry coul
d not hear a word that anyone 
was shouting, nor tell whose hands 
were seizing him, pulling him, 
trying to hug some part of him, 
hundreds of them pressing in, all 
of them determined to touch the 
Boy Who Lived, the reason it was 
over at last  The sun rose steadily over Hogw
arts, and the Great Hall blazed 
with life and light. Harry was an 
indispensable part of the mingled 
outpourings of jubilation and mour
ning, of grief and celebration. 
They wanted him there with them
, their leader and symbol, their 
savior and their guide, and that he 
had not slept, that he craved the 
company of only a few of them, seemed to occur to no one. He must 
speak to the bereaved, clasp their ha
nds, witness their tears, receive 
their thanks, hear the news now cr
eeping in from every quarter as 
THE  FLAW  IN THE  PLAN  745  the morning drew on; that the Impe
riused up and down the country 
had come back to themselves, that 
Death Eaters were fleeing or else 
being captured, that the innocent of
 Azkaban were being released at 
that very moment, and that Kingsl
ey Shacklebolt had been named 
temporary Minister of Magic. . . . 
They moved Voldemorts body and 
laid it in a chamber off the 
Hall, away from the bodies of Fr
ed, Tonks, Lupin, Colin Creevey, 
and fifty others who had died fi
ghting him. McGonagall had re-
placed the House tables, but nobody
 was sitting according to House 
anymore: All were jumbled togeth
er, teachers and pupils, ghosts 
and parents, centaurs and house-el
ves, and Firenze 
lay recovering in a corner, and Grawp peered in through a smashed window, and 
people were throwing food into his
 laughing mouth. After a while, 
exhausted and drained, Harry foun
d himself sitting on a bench 
beside Luna. Id want some peace and quiet,
 if it were me, she said. 
Id love some, he replied. 
Ill distract them all, she said. Use your Cloak. 
And before he could say a word
 she had cried, Oooh, look, a 
Blibbering Humdinger! and pointe
d out of the window. Everyone 
who heard looked around, and Ha
rry slid the Cloak up over him-
self, and got to his feet. 
Now he could move through the Hall without interference. He 
spotted Ginny two tables away; sh
e was sitting with her head on 
her mothers shoulder: There woul
d be time to talk later, hours 
and days and maybe years in whic
h to talk. He saw Neville, the 
sword of Gryffindor lying beside his plate as he ate, surrounded 
by a knot of fervent admirers. Al
ong the aisle between the tables 
he walked, and he spotted the thr
ee Malfoys, huddled together as 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-SIX  746  though unsure whether or not they 
were supposed to be there, but 
nobody was paying them any attent
ion. Everywhere he looked he 
saw families reunited, and finall
y, he saw the two whose company 
he craved most. 
Its me, he muttered, crou
ching down between them. Will 
you come with me? 
They stood up at once, and together he, Ron, and Hermione 
left the Great Hall. Great chunks
 were missing from the marble 
staircase, part of th
e balustrade gone, and 
rubble and bloodstains 
occurred every few steps as they climbed. 
Somewhere in the distance they co
uld hear Peeves zooming through 
the corridors singing a victory song of his own composition:  We did it, we bashed them
, wee Potters the one, 
And Voldys gone moldy, so now lets have fun!
  Really gives a feeling for the sc
ope and tragedy of the thing, 
doesnt it? said Ron, pushing op
en a door to let Harry and Hermi-
one through. Happiness would come, Harry thought, but at the moment it was 
muffled by exhaustion, and the pain
 of losing Fred and Lupin and 
Tonks pierced him like a physical wo
und every few steps. Most of all 
he felt the most stupendous relief, an
d a longing to sleep. But first he 
owed an explanation to Ron and Hermione, who had stuck with him 

for so long, and who deserved the 
truth. Painstakingly he recounted 
what he had seen in th
e Pensieve and what had 
happened in the forest, 
and they had not even begun to ex
press all their shock and amazement 
when at last they arrived at the place to which they had been walking, 
though none of them had mentioned their destination. 
THE  FLAW  IN THE  PLAN  747  Since he had last seen it, the ga
rgoyle guarding the entrance to 
the headmasters study had been 
knocked aside; it stood lopsided, 
looking a little punch-drunk, and Harry wondered whether it would 
be able to distinguish passwords anymore. 
Can we go up? he asked the gargoyle. 
Feel free, groaned the statue. 
They clambered over him and onto 
the spiral stone staircase that 
moved slowly upward like an escalator. Harry pushed open the 
door at the top. He had one, brief glimpse of the stone Pensieve on the desk where 
he had left it, and then an earsplitting noise made him cry out, 
thinking of curses and returning 
Death Eaters and the rebirth of 
Voldemort  
But it was applause. All around 
the walls, the headmasters and 
headmistresses of Hogwarts were giving him a standing ovation; 

they waved their hats and in some cases their wigs, they reached 
through their frames to grip each 
others hands; they danced up and 
down on the chairs in which they 
had been painted; Dilys Derwent 
sobbed unashamedly; Dexter Fortes
cue was waving his ear-trumpet; 
and Phineas Nigellus called, in his 
high, reedy voice, And let it be 
noted that Slytherin House played 
its part! Let our contribution not 
be forgotten! But Harry had eyes only for th
e man who stood in the largest 
portrait directly behind the headma
sters chair. Tears were sliding 
down from behind the half-moon sp
ectacles into the long silver 
beard, and the pride and the grat
itude emanating from him filled 
Harry with the same balm as phoenix song. 
At last, Harry held up his hands, and the portraits fell respectfully 
silent, beaming and mopping their 
eyes and waiting eagerly for him 
CHAPTER  THIRTY-SIX  748  to speak. He directed his words at Dumbledore, however, and chose 
them with enormous care. Exhausted and bleary-eyed though he 

was, he must make one last effort, 
seeking one last piece of advice. The thing that was hidden in the 
Snitch, he began, I dropped 
it in the forest. I dont know exactly where, but Im not going to go 
looking for it again. Do you agree? 
My dear boy, I do, said Dumbledore, while his fellow pictures 
looked confused and curious. A wise and courageous decision, but 
no less than I would have expected
 of you. Does anyone else know 
where it fell? 
No one, said Harry, and Dumble
dore nodded his satisfaction. Im going to keep Ignotuss present, though, said Harry, and 
Dumbledore beamed. 
But of course, Harry, it is your
s forever, until 
you pass it on! 
And then theres this. 

Harry held up the Elder Wand, 
and Ron and Hermione looked 
at it with a reverence that, even 
in his befuddled and sleep-deprived 
state, Harry did not like to see. 
I dont want it, said Harry. 
What? said Ron loudly. Are you mental? 

I know its powerful, said Harry wearily. But I was happier 
with mine. So . . . He rummaged in the pouch hung
 around his neck, and pulled 
out the two halves of holly still ju
st connected by the finest thread 
of phoenix feather. Hermione had sa
id that they could not be re-
paired, that the damage was too seve
re. All he knew was that if this 
did not work, nothing would. He laid the broken wand upon th
e headmasters desk, touched it 
with the very tip of the Elder Wand, and said, Reparo.
 THE  FLAW  IN THE  PLAN  749  As his wand resealed, red sparks flew out of its end. Harry knew 
that he had succeeded. He picked up the holly and phoenix wand 

and felt a sudden warmth in his fingers, as though wand and hand 
were rejoicing at their reunion. 
Im putting the Elder Wand, he told Dumbledore, who was 
watching him with enormous affection and admiration, back where 
it came from. It can stay there. If I die a natural death like Ignotus, 

its power will be broken, wont it
? The previous master will never 
have been defeated. That
ll be the end of it. 
Dumbledore nodded. They smiled at each other. 
Are you sure? said Ron. There 
was the faintest trace of longing 
in his voice as he looked at the Elder Wand. 
I think Harrys right, 
said Hermione quietly. That wands more trouble than its worth, said Harry. And 
quite honestly, he turned away 
from the painted portraits, think-
ing now only of the four-poster bed lying waiting for him in Gryf-
findor Tower, and wondering whether Kreacher might bring him a 
sandwich there, Ive had enou
gh trouble for a lifetime. 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        NINTEEN YEARS LATER      E P I L O G U E   753  NINETEEN YEARS LATER 
   utumn seemed to arrive suddenly that year. The morning 
of the first of September was crisp and golden as an apple, 
and as the little family bobbed ac
ross the rumbling road toward 
the great sooty station, the fumes of
 car exhausts and the breath of 
pedestrians sparkled like cobwebs 
in the cold air. Two large cages 
rattled on top of the laden trolleys the parents were pushing; the 
owls inside them hooted indignantl
y, and the redhea
ded girl trailed 
tearfully behind her brothers, 
clutching her fa
thers arm. It wont be long, and youll be going too, Harry told her. 
Two years, sniffed Lily. I want to go 
now
! The commuters stared curiously at
 the owls as the family wove 
its way toward the barr
ier between platforms 
nine and ten. Albuss 
voice drifted back to Harry over 
the surrounding clamor; his sons 
had resumed the argument they had star
ted in the car. I wont
! I 
wont
 be in Slytherin! 
James, give it a re
st! said Ginny. 
A EPILOGUE  754  I only said he 
might be, said James, grinning at his younger 
brother. Theres nothin
g wrong with that. He 
might
 be in 
Slyth  But James caught his mothers eye and fell silent. The five Potters approached the barrier. With a slight
ly cocky look over his shoulder 
at his younger brother, James took
 the trolley from his mother and 
broke into a run. A moment
 later, he had vanished. 
Youll write to me, wont you? 
Albus asked his parents immedi-
ately, capitalizing on the mome
ntary absence of his brother. 
Every day, if you want us to, said Ginny. 

Not every day, said Albus quickly. James says most people only 
get letters from home about once a month. 
We wrote to James three times a week last year, said Ginny. 
And you dont want to believ
e everything he tells you about 
Hogwarts, Harry put in. He likes a laugh, your brother. 
Side by side, they pushed the se
cond trolley forward, gathering 
speed. As they reached the barrier,
 Albus winced, but no collision 
came. Instead, the family emerge
d onto platform nine and three-
quarters, which was obscured by t
hick white steam th
at was pouring 
from the scarlet Hogwarts Express. 
Indistinct figures were swarming 
through the mist, into which Ja
mes had already disappeared. Where are they? asked Albus an
xiously, peering at the hazy 
forms they passed as they made
 their way down the platform. 
Well find them, sa
id Ginny reassuringly. 
But the vapor was dense, and it was difficult to make out any-
bodys faces. Detached from thei
r owners, voices sounded unnatu-
rally loud. Harry thought he hear
d Percy discoursing loudly on 
broomstick regulations, and was quite 
glad of the excuse not to stop 
and say hello. . . . 
NINETEEN  YEARS  LATER  755  I think thats them, Al, said Ginny suddenly. 
A group of four people emerged fr
om the mist, standing alongside 
the very last carriage. Their faces only came into focus when Harry, 
Ginny, Lily, and Albus had drawn right up to them. Hi, said Albus, soundi
ng immensely relieved. 
Rose, who was already wearing her brand-new Hogwarts robes, 
beamed at him. Parked all right, then? Ron 
asked Harry. I did. Hermione 
didnt believe I could pass a Mu
ggle driving test, did you? She 
thought Id have to Co
nfund the examiner. 
No, I didnt, said Hermione, I had complete faith in you. 
As a matter of fact, I 
did Confund him, Ron whispered to 
Harry, as together they lifted Albu
ss trunk and owl onto the train. 
I only forgot to look in the wing
 mirror, and lets face it, I can use 
a Supersensory Charm for that. 
Back on the platform, they foun
d Lily and Hugo, Roses younger 
brother, having an animated discussion about which House they 
would be sorted into when th
ey finally went to Hogwarts. 
If youre not in Gryffindor, well disinherit you, said Ron, but 
no pressure. Ron! Lily and Hugo laughed, but Albus and Rose l
ooked solemn. He doesnt mean it, said Hermione and Ginny, but Ron was no 
longer paying attention. Catching Harrys eye, he nodded covertly to 
a point some fifty yards away. Th
e steam had thinned for a moment, 
and three people stood in sharp relief against the shifting mist. 
Look who it is. Draco Malfoy was standing there 
with his wife and son, a dark 
coat buttoned up to his throat. His hair was receding somewhat, 
EPILOGUE  756  which emphasized the pointed ch
in. The new boy resembled Draco 
as much as Albus resembled Harr
y. Draco caught sight of Harry, 
Ron, Hermione, and Ginny starin
g at him, nodded curtly, and 
turned away again. So thats little Scorpius, said 
Ron under his breath. Make sure 
you beat him in every 
test, Rosie. Thank Go
d you inherited your 
mothers brains. 
Ron, for heavens sake, said He
rmione, half stern, half amused. 
Dont try to turn them against each other before theyve even 
started school! Youre right, sorry, said Ron, bu
t unable to help
 himself, he 
added, Dont get 
too friendly with him, though, Rosie. Granddad 
Weasley would never forgive you 
if you married 
a pureblood. 
Hey! James had reappeared; he had divested himself of his trunk, owl, 
and trolley, and was evidently bursting with news. 
Teddys back there, he said brea
thlessly, pointing back over his 
shoulder into the billowing clouds of steam. Just seen him! And 
guess what hes doing? 
Snogging Victoire
! He gazed up at the adults, eviden
tly disappointed by the lack of 
reaction. 
Our Teddy! Teddy Lupin
! Snogging our Victoire! 
Our cousin! 
And I asked Teddy what he was doing  
You interrupted them? said Ginny. You are 
so like Ron  
 and he said hed come to see her off! And then he told me to 
go away. Hes 
snogging her! James added as though worried he had 
not made himself clear. 
Oh, it would be lovely if they got married! whispered Lily ec-
statically. Teddy would really be part of the family then! 
NINETEEN  YEARS  LATER  757  He already comes round for dinner about four times a week, 
said Harry. Why dont we just invi
te him to live wi
th us and have 
done with it? Yeah! said James enthusiastical
ly. I dont mind sharing with 
Al  Teddy could have my room! No, said Harry firmly, you and Al will share a room only when 
I want the house demolished. 
He checked the battered old watc
h that had once been Fabian 
Prewetts. 
Its nearly eleven, youd better get on board. 

Dont forget to give Neville ou
r love! Ginny told James as she 
hugged him. Mum! I cant give a professor 
love
! But you 
know
 Neville  James rolled his eyes. 

Outside, yeah, but at school hes Professor Longbottom, isnt he? 
I cant walk into Herbology and give him 
love. . . . Shaking his head at his mothers 
foolishness, he vented his feel-
ings by aiming a kick at Albus. 
See you later, Al. Watch out for the thestrals. 

I thought they were invisible? 
You said they were invisible
! But James merely laughed, permitted his mother to kiss him, 
gave his father a fleeting hug, 
then leapt onto the rapidly filling 
train. They saw him wave, then sprint away up the corridor to find 
his friends. 
Thestrals are nothing to wo
rry about, Harry told Albus. 
Theyre gentle things, theres 
nothing scary about them. Anyway, you wont be going up to school in the carriages, youll be going in 

the boats. 
EPILOGUE  758  Ginny kissed Albus good-bye. 
See you at Christmas. 

Bye, Al, said Harry as his 
son hugged him. Dont forget 
Hagrids invited you to tea next Friday. Dont mess with Peeves. 
Dont duel anyone till yo
uve learned how. And dont let James wind 
you up. 
What if Im in Slytherin? 

The whisper was for his father al
one, and Harry knew that only 
the moment of departure could ha
ve forced Albus to reveal how 
great and sincere that fear was. 
Harry crouched down so that Albus
s face was slightly above his 
own. Alone of Harrys three childr
en, Albus had inherited Lilys 
eyes. 
Albus Severus, Harry said quie
tly, so that nobody but Ginny 
could hear, and she was tactful enoug
h to pretend to be waving to 
Rose, who was now on the train, 
you were named for two headmas-
ters of Hogwarts. One of them wa
s a Slytherin and he was probably 
the bravest man I ever knew. 
But just say
  
 then Slytherin House will ha
ve gained an ex
cellent student, 
wont it? It doesnt matter
 to us, Al. But if it 
matters to you, youll 
be able to choose Gryffindor over
 Slytherin. The Sorting Hat takes 
your choice into account. 
Really? 
It did for me, said Harry. 
He had never told any of his c
hildren that before, and he saw 
the wonder in Albuss face when he said it. But now the doors were 
slamming all along the scarlet trai
n, and the blurred outlines of par-
ents were swarming forward for fina
l kisses, last-minute reminders. 
NINETEEN  YEARS  LATER  759  Albus jumped into the carriage and Ginny closed the door behind 
him. Students were hanging from the windows nearest them. A great 

number of faces, both on the trai
n and off, seemed to be turned 
toward Harry. 
Why are they all 
staring
? demanded Albus as he and Rose 
craned around to look at the other students. 
Dont let it worry you, said 
Ron. Its me. Im extremely 
famous. 
Albus, Rose, Hugo, and Lily laug
hed. The train began to move, 
and Harry walked alongside it, wa
tching his sons thin face, al-
ready ablaze with excitement. Harr
y kept smiling and waving, even 
though it was like a little bereav
ement, watching his son glide away 
from him. . . . 
The last trace of steam evaporated
 in the autumn air. The train 
rounded a corner. Harrys hand 
was still raised in farewell. 
Hell be all right, murmured Ginny. As Harry looked at her, he lowered his hand absentmindedly and 
touched the lightning scar on his forehead. 
I know he will. 
The scar had not pained Harry for nineteen years. All was well. 
NINETEEN  YEARS  LATER  759  Albus jumped into the carriage and Ginny closed the door behind 
him. Students were hanging from the windows nearest them. A great 

number of faces, both on the trai
n and off, seemed to be turned 
toward Harry. 
Why are they all 
staring
? demanded Albus as he and Rose 
craned around to look at the other students. 
Dont let it worry you, said 
Ron. Its me. Im extremely 
famous. 
Albus, Rose, Hugo, and Lily laug
hed. The train began to move, 
and Harry walked alongside it, wa
tching his sons thin face, al-
ready ablaze with excitement. Harr
y kept smiling and waving, even 
though it was like a little bereav
ement, watching his son glide away 
from him. . . . 
The last trace of steam evaporated
 in the autumn air. The train 
rounded a corner. Harrys hand 
was still raised in farewell. 
Hell be all right, murmured Ginny. As Harry looked at her, he lowered his hand absentmindedly and 
touched the lightning scar on his forehead. 
I know he will. 
The scar had not pained Harry for nineteen years. All was well. 
   This book was 
art directed by David 
Saylor. The art for both the jacket and the interior was created using pastels on 
toned printmaking paper. The text was set in 12-point 
Adobe Garamond, a typeface based on the sixteenth-century type 
designs of Claude Garamond, redrawn by Robert Slimbach in 1989. The 
book was typeset by Brad Walrod and was printed and bound at 
RR Donnelley in Crawfordsvi
lle, Indiana. The Managing 
Editor was Karyn Brow
ne; the Continuity Editor was Cheryl Klein; and the 
Manufacturing Director 
was Angela 
Biola.    This book was 
art directed by David 
Saylor. The art for both the jacket and the interior was created using pastels on 
toned printmaking paper. The text was set in 12-point 
Adobe Garamond, a typeface based on the sixteenth-century type 
designs of Claude Garamond, redrawn by Robert Slimbach in 1989. The 
book was typeset by Brad Walrod and was printed and bound at 
RR Donnelley in Crawfordsvi
lle, Indiana. The Managing 
Editor was Karyn Brow
ne; the Continuity Editor was Cheryl Klein; and the 
Manufacturing Director 
was Angela 
Biola.   