    
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
   
 
   
     Property of Hogwarts School Library
Name of borrower Date due back 
  A warning: If you rip, tear
, shred, bend, fold, deface, 
disfigure, smear, smudge, throw, drop, or in any 
other manner damage, mistreat, or show lack of 

respect towards this book, 
the consequences will be as awful as it is within my power to make them. 
Irma Pince, Hogwarts Librarian
  About Comic Relief: A note from J. K. Rowling
 Comic Relief is one of Britains most
 famous and successful charities. 
Begun in 1985, the organization has raised more than $250,000,000 for 
such charities as the Red Cross, Ox
fam, Sight Savers, the International 
HIV/AIDS Alliance, and Anti-Slavery International. The Harry Potter books 
represent a new opportunity in Comic Reliefs quest to make a meaningful 
difference in peoples lives. A special Harrys Books fund has been created 
where twenty percent of the retail sales price less taxes from the sale of 
Quidditch Through the Ages 
and Fantastic Beasts & Where to Find Them 
will go to support childrens causes th
roughout the world. Every book sold 
counts! Fifty cents will send a child to school for a week  and change his 
or her life forever. 
Log on to www.comicrelief.com/harrysbooks and see how the money 
from the purchase of these books is being used to help others. The Harrys 
Books fund will support such efforts as
 the education of children, the fight 
against child slavery, and the reuniting of parents and children separated 
by war. The fund will also educate people about the AIDS/HIV epidemic 
and will support child victims of landmine explosions. 
What is so wonderful about Comi
c Relief is that its costs are 
sponsored, therefore it does not take money for its own administration from 
the money given by the public. This means that in fact, because of 
accumulated interest, more than 100% of the money it raises it passes on 
to charity projects. 
I have always had a sneaking desire to write 
Fantastic Beasts & 
Where to Find Them 
and Quidditch Through the Ages, 
so when Richard 
Curtis of Comic Relief wrote to me, I 
thought it was a wonderful opportunity 
to help a charity I have always supported. Everyone involved with bringing 
these books to fruition, the publishe
rs, vendors, and retailers, has enabled 
the contribution of a proportion of the cover price of these books to Comic 
Reliefs Harrys Books fund. 
Thank you for buying this book! 
    QUIDDITCH THROUGH THE AGES
  Kennilworthy Whisp    
        
 
     Arthur A. Levine Books 
AN IMPRINT OF SCHOLASTIC PRESS
 in association with
    129
B DIAGON 
ALLEY, LONDON   Praise for Quidditch Through the Ages
 Kennilworthy Whisps painstaking re
search has uncovered a veritable 
treasure trove of hitherto unknown 
facts about the sport of warlocks. 
A fascinating read.               Bathilda Bagshot, author, 
A History of Magic
  Whisp has produced a thoroughly enjoyable book; Quidditch fans are 
sure to find it both instructive and entertaining. 
 Editor, 
Which Broomstick
  The definitive work on the origin
s and history of Quidditch. Highly 
recommended.                  Brutus Scrimgeour, author, 
The Beaters Bible
  Mr. Whisp shows a lot of promise.
  If he keeps up the good work, he 
may well find himself sharing a photosh
oot with me one of these days! 
 Gilderoy Lockhart, author, 
Magical Me
  Bet you anything itll be a 
best-seller. Go on, I bet you. 
 Ludovic Bagman, England and Wimbourne Wasps Beater 
 Ive read worse.                      
                      Rita Skeeter, 
Daily Prophet 
      Text copyright  2001 by J. K. Rowling.   Illustration
s and hand lettering copyright  2001 by J. K. Rowling. 
All rights reserved. Published by Scholastic Press, a division of Scholastic Inc., 
Publishers since 1920. 
SCHOLASTIC, 
SCHOLASTIC PRESS, and the LANTERN LOGO are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Scholastic Inc. HARRY 
POTTER and all related characters, names, and related indicia are trademarks ofWarner Bros. 
No part of this publication may be reproduc
ed, or stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, 
electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, 
without written permission of the publisher. For information 
regarding permissions, write to Scholas
tic Inc., Attention:  Permissions Depa
rtment, 555 Broadway, New York, NY 10012. 
Scholastic Inc. has arranged for twenty percent of the retail sale
s price less taxes from the sale of this book to go to Comic 
Relief U. K.s Harrys Books fund. J. K. 
Rowling is donating all royalties to which she would be entitled. The purchase of this
 book is not tax deductible. Comic Relief may be contacted 
at: Comic Relief, 5th Floor, Albert Embankment, London SEI 77P, 
England (www.comicrelief.com). Comic Relief in the United Ki
ngdom is not affiliated with the organization of the same 
name in the United Sutes. 
ISBN 0-439-32161-1 
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data Available 
20 19 18 17 16 15 14                                     07 08 09 
Printed in the United States and bound in Mexico       23 
First hardcover boxset edition, September 2001 
    About the Author 
   ENNILWORTHY 
WHISP is a renowned Quidditch 
expert (and, he says, fanatic).
 He is the author of many 
Quidditch-related works, including 
The Wonder of Wigtown 
Wanderers, He Flew Like a Madman 
(a biography of 
Dangerous Dai Llewellyn) and 
Beating the Bludgers 
 A Study of Defensive Strategies in Quidditch.
 Kennilworthy Whisp divides his time between his home 
in Nottinghamshire and wherever Wigtown Wanderers are 

playing this week. His hobbies include backgammon, 

vegetarian cookery, and collecting vintage broomsticks. 
K vi   
  Contents 
  Foreword 
vii1. The Evolution of the Flying Broomstick 
12. Ancient Broom Games 
33. The Game From Queerditch Marsh 
74. The Arrival of the Golden Snitch 
105. Anti-Muggle Precautions 
156. Changes in Quidditch Since the 
 Fourteenth Century 
17 Pitch 17 Balls 20 Players
 23 Rules 27 Referees
 307. Quidditch Teams of Britain and Ireland 
318. The Spread of Quidditch Worldwide 
389. The Development of the Racing Broom 
4710. Quidditch Today 
51   vii Foreword 
 UIDDITCH THROUGH THE 
AGES is one of the most 
popular titles in the Hogwarts school library. Madam Pince, 
our librarian, tells me that it 
is pawed about, dribbled on, and 
generally maltreated nearly every day  a high compliment for any  
book. Anyone who plays or watches Quidditch regularly will relish 
Mr. Whisps book, as do those of us interested in wider wizarding 
history. As we have developed the game of Quidditch, so it has 
developed us; Quidditch unites witches and wizards from all walks 
of life, bringing us together to
 share moments of exhilaration, 
triumph, and (for those who support the Chudley Cannons) 
despair. It was with some difficulty, I must own, that I persuaded Madam 
Pince to part with one of her books so that it might be copied for 
wider consumption. Indeed, when I told her it was to be made 
available to Muggles, she was rendered temporarily speechless, and 
neither moved nor blinked for several minutes. When she came to 
herself she was thoughtful enough to
 ask whether I had taken leave 
of my senses. I was pleased to reassure her on that point and went 
on to explain why I had taken this unprecedented decision. 
Muggle readers will need no intr
oduction to the work of Comic 
Relief U. K. (which, funnily enoug
h, has nothing to do with the 
American organization of the same name), so I now repeat my 
explanation to Madam Pince for the benefit of witches and wizards 
who have purchased this book. Comic Relief U. K. uses laughter to 
fight poverty, injustice, and disa
ster. Widespread amusement is 
converted into large quantities of money (over 250 million dollars 
since they started in 1985  which is the equivalent of over 174 
million pounds or thirty-four million Galleons). 
Everyone involved in getting this book to you, from the author to 
the publisher to the paper suppl
iers, printers, binders, and 
booksellers, contributed their time, energy, and materials free or at 
a reduced cost, making it possible for twenty percent of the retail 
Q viii sales price less taxes from the sale 
of this book to go to a fund set 
up in Harry Potters name by Comic Relief U. K. and J. K. 
Rowling. This fund was designed specifically to help children in 

need throughout the world. By buying this book  and I would 
advise you to buy it, because if you read it too long without handing 

over money you will find yourself the object of a Thiefs Curse  

you too will be contributing to this magical mission. 
I would be deceiving my readers if I said that this explanation 
made Madam Pince happy about handing over a library book to 
Muggles. She suggested several alternatives, such as telling the 
people from Comic Relief U. K. that the library had burned down, 

or simply pretending that I 
had dropped dead without leaving 
instructions. When I told her that on the whole I preferred my 
original plan, she reluctantly agreed to hand over the book, though 

at the point when it came to let go
 of it, her nerve failed her and I 
was forced to prise her fingers individually from the spine. 
Though I have removed the usual library book spells from this 
volume, I cannot promise that every trace has gone. Madam Pince 

has been known to add unusual jinxes to the books in her care. I 

myself doodled absentmindedly on a copy of 
Theories of 
Transubstantial Transfiguration 
last year and next moment found the 
book beating me fiercely about the head. Please be careful how you 
treat this book. Do not rip out the pages. Do not drop it in the 

bath. I cannot promise that Madam Pince will not swoop down on 

you, wherever you are, and demand a heavy fine. 
All that remains is for me to thank you for supporting Comic 
Relief U. K. and to beg Muggles not to try playing Quidditch at 
home; it is, of course, an entirely
 fictional sport and nobody really 
plays it. May I also take this opportunity to wish Puddlemere 

United the best of luck next season. 
1  Chapter One
 The Evolution of the Flying Broomstick  o spell yet devised enables wizards to fly unaided in 
human form. Those few Animagi who transform 
into winged creatures may en
joy flight, but they are a 
rarity. The witch or wizard who finds him- or herself 
transfigured into a bat may take
 to the air, but, having a 
bats brain, they are sure to 
forget where they want to go 
the moment they take flight. Levitation is commonplace, 
but our ancestors were not cont
ent with hovering five feet 
from the ground. They wanted more. They wanted to fly 

like birds, but without th
e inconvenience of growing 
feathers. We are so accustomed these 
days to the fact that every 
wizarding household in Britai
n owns at least one flying 
broomstick that we rarely stop to ask ourselves why. 
Why should the humble broom have become the one object legally allowed as a means of
 wizarding transport? Why 
did we in the West not adopt 
the carpet so beloved of our 
Eastern brethren? Why didnt we
 choose to produce flying 
barrels, flying armchairs, flying bathtubs  why brooms? 
Shrewd enough to see that their Muggle neighbours 
would seek to exploit their pow
ers if they knew their full 
N 2 extent, witches and wizards kept themselves to 
themselves long before the International Statute of 

Wizarding Secrecy came into effect. If they were to keep 

a means of flight in their ho
uses, it would necessarily be 
something discreet, something easy to hide. The 

broomstick was ideal for this purpose; it required no 
explanation, no excuse if found by Muggles, it was easily 
portable and inexpensive. Nevertheless, the first brooms 
bewitched for flying purposes had their drawbacks. 
Records show that witches and wizards in Europe were using flying broomsticks as early as 
A.D. 962. A German 
illuminated manuscript of 
this period shows three 
warlocks dismounting from their brooms with looks of 
exquisite discomfort on thei
r faces. Guthrie Lochrin, a 
Scottish wizard writing in 1107, spoke of the splinter-
filled buttocks and bulging piles he suffered after a short 
broom ride from Montrose to Arbroath. 
A medieval broomstick on display in the Museum of 
Quidditch in London gives us 
an insight into Lochrins 
discomfort (see Fig. A). 
A thick knotty handle of 
unvarnished ash, with haze
l twigs bound crudely to one 
end, it is neither comfortable nor aerodynamic. The 
charms placed upon it are 
similarly basic: It will only 
move forwards at on
e speed; it will go
 up, down, and stop. 
As wizarding families in 
those days made their own 
brooms, there was enormous
 variation in the speed, 
3 comfort, and handling of the transport available to them. 
By the twelfth century, howeve
r, wizards had learned to 
barter services, so that a sk
illed maker of brooms could 
exchange them for the potions his neighbour might make 

better than himself. Once broomsticks became more 

comfortable, they were flown for pleasure rather than 
merely used as a means of getting from point A to point B. 
       Chapter Two 
Ancient Broom Games  room sports emerged almost
 as soon as broomsticks 
were sufficiently advanced to allow fliers to turn 
corners and vary their speed and height. Early wizarding 
writings and paintings give us
 some idea of the games our 
ancestors played. Some of th
ese no longer exist; others 
have survived or evolved into the sports we know today. The celebrated 
annual broom race of Sweden dates 
from the tenth century. Fliers
 race from Kopparberg to 
B 4 Arjeplog, a distance of slightly over three hundred miles. 
The course runs straight th
rough a dragon reservation, 
and the vast silver trophy is 
shaped like a Swedish Short-
Snout. Nowadays this is an international event and 

wizards of all nationalities 
congregate at Kopparberg to 
cheer the starters, then Apparate to Arjeplog to 
congratulate the survivors. The famous painting 
Gnther der Gewaltttige ist der Gewinner 
(Gunther the Violent Is the Winner), dated 1105, shows 
the ancient German game of Stichstock. A twenty-foot-high pole was topped with an inflated dragon bladder. 
One player on a broomstick had the job of protecting this 
bladder. The bladder-guardian was tied to the pole by a 
rope around his or her waist, so
 that he or she could not 
fly further than ten feet away from it. The rest of the 
players would take it in tu
rns to fly at the bladder and 
attempt to puncture it with th
e specially sharpened ends 
of their brooms. The bladder-guardian was allowed to use 
his or her wand to repel these attacks. The game ended 
when the bladder was successfully punctured, or the 
bladder-guardian had either
 succeeded in hexing all 
opponents out of the running or collapsed from 
exhaustion. Stichstock died out
 in the fourteenth century. 
In Ireland the game of 
Aingingein 
flourished, the 
subject of many an Irish ballad (the legendary wizard 
Fingal the Fearless is alleged to have been an Aingingein 
5 champion). One by one the pl
ayers would take the Dom, 
or ball (actually the gallbladder of a goat), and speed 

through a series of burning barrels set high in the air on 

stilts. The Dom was to be thrown through the final barrel. 

The player who succeeded in 
getting the Dom through the 
last barrel in the fastest time, without having caught fire 
on the way, was the winner. Scotland was the birthplace of what is probably the 
most dangerous of all broom games  
Creaothceann. The game features in a tragic Gaelic poem of the eleventh 
century, the first verse of which says, in translation:  The players assembled, twelve fine, hearty men, 
They strapped on their caul
drons, stood poised to fly, At the sound of the horn they were swiftly airborne 
But ten of their number were fated to die.
  Creaothceann players each wore a cauldron strapped to 
the head. At the sound of the horn or drum, up to a 
hundred charmed rocks and boulders that had been 
hovering a hundred feet ab
ove the ground began to fall 
towards the earth. The Creaothceann players zoomed 
around trying to catch as many 
rocks as possible in their 
cauldrons. Considered by ma
ny Scottish wizards to be 
the supreme test of manliness and courage, Creaothceann 

enjoyed considerable popularity in the Middle Ages, 
6 despite the huge number of fatali
ties that resulted from it. 
The game was made illegal in 1762, and though Magnus 

Dent-Head Macdonald spearh
eaded a campaign for its 
reintroduction in the 1960s, the Ministry of Magic 

refused to lift the ban. Shuntbumps 
was popular in Devon, England. This 
was a crude form of jousting, 
the sole aim being to knock 
as many other players as possible off their brooms, the last 
person remaining on their broom winning. 
Swivenhodge 
began in Herefordshire. Like 
Stichstock, this involved an inflated bladder, usually a 
pigs. Players sat backwards
 on their brooms and batted 
the bladder backwards and forw
ards across a hedge with 
the brush ends of their br
ooms. The first person to miss gave their opponent a point. Fi
rst to reach fifty points was 
the winner. Swivenhodge is still played in England, though it has 
never achieved much widesp
read popularity; Shuntbumps 
survives only as a childrens 
game. At Queerditch Marsh, 
however, a game had been created that would one day 
become the most popular in
 the wizarding world. 7  Chapter Three
 The Game From Queerditch Marsh  e owe our knowledge of the rude beginnings of 
Quidditch to the writings
 of the witch Gertie 
Keddle, who lived on the edge of Queerditch Marsh in the 

eleventh century. Fortunately for us, she kept a diary, now 

in the Museum of Quidditc
h in London. The excerpts 
below have been translated from the badly spelled Saxon 
of the original.  Tuesday. Hot. That lot from across the marsh have been at it 
again. Playing a stupid game 
on their broomsticks. A big 
leather ball landed in my ca
bbages. I hexed the man who 
came for it. Id like to see him fly with his knees on back to 
front, the great hairy hog. 
 Tuesday. Wet. Was out on the marsh picking nettles. 

Broomstick idiots playing again. Watched for a bit from 

behind a rock. Theyve got a new ball. Throwing it to each 
other and trying to stick it in
 trees at either end of the 
marsh. Pointless rubbish. 
 Tuesday. Windy. Gwenog came 
for nettle tea, then invited 
me out for a treat. Ended up watching those numbskulls 
W 8 playing their game on the marsh. That big Scottish warlock 
from up the hill was there. Now theyve got two big, heavy 
rocks flying around trying to knock them all off their 

brooms. Unfortunately didnt 
happen while I was watching. 
Gwenog told me she often play
ed herself. Went home in 
disgust.  These extracts reveal much more than Gertie Keddle 
could have guessed, quite 
apart from the fact that
 she only 
knew the name of one of the da
ys of the week. Firstly, the 
ball that landed in her cabbage patch was made of leather, 
as is the modern Quaffle 
 naturally, the inflated bladder 
used in other broom games of the period would be 
difficult to throw accurately
, particularly in windy 
conditions. Secondly, Gertie te
lls us that the men were 
trying to stick it in trees at
 either end of the marsh  
apparently an early form of go
al-scoring. Thirdly, she gives 
us a glimpse of the forerunners of Bludgers. It is 

immensely interesting that 
there was a big Scottish 
warlock present. Could he 
have been a Creaothceann 
player? Was it his idea to bewitch heavy rocks to zoom 
dangerously around the pitch, inspired by the boulders 
used in his native game? 
We find no further mention of the sport played on 
Queerditch Marsh until a century 
later, when the wizard 
Goodwin Kneen took up his quill to write to his 
9 Norwegian cousin Olaf. Kneen 
lived in Yorkshire, which 
demonstrates the spread of 
the sport throughout Britain in the hundred years after Gertie Keddle first witnessed 

it. Kneens letter is deposited in the archives of the 

Norwegian Ministry of Magic.  Dear Olaf, 
How are you? I am well, though Gunhilda had got a 
touch of dragon pox. 
We enjoyed a spirited game of Kwidditch last Saturday 
night, though poor Gunhilda was not up to playing Catcher, 
and we had to use Radulf the blacksmith instead. The team 

from Ilkley played well though
 was no match for us, for we 
had been practising hard all month and scored forty-two 
times. Radulf got a Blooder in the head because old Ugga 
wasnt quick enough with his club. The new scoring barrels 

worked well. Three at each end on stilts, Oona from the inn 
gave us them. She let us have 
free mead all night because we 
won as well. Gunhilda was a bit angry I got back so late. I 

had to duck a couple of nasty jinxes but Ive got my fingers 
back now. Im sending this with 
the best owl Ive got, hope he makes it. 
Your cousin, 
Goodwin 
 Here we see how far the game has progressed in a century. 
Goodwins wife was to have 
played Catcher  probably 
the old term for Chaser. The Blooder (undoubtedly 
10 Bludger) that hit Radulf the bl
acksmith should have been 
fended off by Ugga, who was obviously playing Beater, as 

he was carrying a club. The 
goals are no longer trees, but 
barrels on stilts. One crucial element in the game was still 

missing, however: the Golden 
Snitch. The addition of the 
fourth Quidditch ball did not 
occur until the middle of the 
thirteenth century and it came about in a curious manner. 
 Chapter Four 
The Arrival of the Golden Snitch  rom the early 1100s, Snidget-hunting had been 
popular among many witc
hes and wizards. The Golden Snidget (see Fig. B) 
is today a protected species, 
but at that time Golden Snid
gets were common in northern 
Europe, though difficult to de
tect by Muggles because of 
their aptitude at hiding and their very great speed. 
The diminutive size of the Snidget, coupled with its 
remarkable agility in the air and talent at avoiding 
predators, merely added to the prestige of wizards who 
caught them. A twelfth-century tapestry preserved in the 
Museum of Quidditch shows 
a group setting out to catch 
a Snidget. In the first portion of the tapestry, some 

hunters carry nets, others use wands, and still others 

attempt to catch the Snidget with their bare hands. The 
F 11 tapestry reveals the fact 
that the Snidget was often 
crushed by its captor. In the fi
nal portion of the tapestry 
we see the wizard who caught the Snidget being presented 

with a bag of gold. Snidget-hunting was reprehensible in many ways. Every 
right-minded wizard must de
plore the destruction of 
these peace-loving little bird
s in the name of sport. 
Moreover, Snidget-hunting, which was usually under-       
     taken in broad daylight, led 
to more Muggle broomstick 
sightings than any other pursu
it. The Wizards Council of 
the time, however, was unable to curb the sports 
popularity  indeed, it appears that the Council itself saw 

little wrong with it, as we shall see. 
Snidget-hunting finally crossed paths with Quidditch in 
1269 at a game attended by the Chief of the Wizards 
12 Council himself, Barberus Br
agge. We know this because 
of the eyewitness account 
sent by Madam Modesty 
Rabnott of Kent to her sister 
Prudence in Aberdeen (this 
letter is also on display in 
the Museum of Quidditch). 
According to Madam Rabnott, Bragge brought a caged 

Snidget to the match and told 
the assembled players that 
he would award one hundred and fifty Galleons
1 to the 
player who caught it during the course of the game. 
Madam Rabnott explains what happened next: 
 The players rose as one into the air, ignoring the 
Quaffle and dodging the Blooders. Both Keepers abandoned the goal baskets and 
joined the hunt. The poor little Snidget shot up 
and down the pitch seeking a means of escape, but the wizards in the crowd forced 
it back with Repelling Spells. Well, Pru, you know 
how I am about Snidget-h
unting and what I get like 
when my temper goes. I ran onto the pitch and 

screamed, Chief Bragge, this
 is not sport! Let the 
Snidget go free and let us watch the noble game of 
Cuaditch which we have all come to see! If youll 
believe me. Pru, all the brute did was laugh and 

throuw the empty birdcage at me. Well, I saw red, 

Pru, I really did. When the poor little Snidget flew 
1. Equivalent to over a million Ga
lleons today. Whether Chief Bragge 
intended to pay or not is a moot point. 
13 My way I did a Summoning Charm. You know how 
good my Summoning Charms are, Pru  of course it 

was easier for me to aim 
properly, not being mounted 
on a broomstick at the ti
me. The little bird came 
zooming into my hand. I stu
ffed it down the front of 
my robes and ran like fury. 
Well, they caught me, but not
 before Id got out of 
the crowds and released th
e Snidget. Chief Bragge 
was very angry and for a mo
ment I thought Id end 
up a horned toad, or worse,
 but luckily his advisors 
calmed him down and I was only fined ten Galleons 

for disrupting the game. Of
 course Ive never had ten 
Galleons in my life, so thats the old home gone. Ill be coming to live with 
you shortly, luckily they 
didnt take the Hippogriff.
 And Ill tell you this, 
Pru, Chief Bragge would 
have lost my vote if Id 
had one. Your loving sister, 

Modesty 
 Madam Rabnotts brave action might have saved one 
Snidget, but she could not save them all. Chief Bragges 
idea had forever changed 
the nature of Quidditch. 
Golden Snidgets were soon being released during all 

Quidditch games, one player on each team (the Hunter) 

having the sole task of catching it. When the bird was 
14 killed, the game was over and the Hunters team was 
awarded an extra one hundred and fifty points, in 

memory of the one hundred and fifty Galleons promised 

by Chief Bragge. The crowd undertook to keep the 

Snidget on the pitch by using the Repelling Spells 

mentioned by Madam Rabnott. By the middle of the following century, however, 
Golden Snidget numbers had fallen so low that the 
Wizards Council, now headed by the considerably more 
enlightened Elfrida Clagg, made the Golden Snidget a 
protected species, outlawing both
 its killing and its use in 
Quidditch games. The Modesty Rabnott Snidget 
Reservation was founded in Somerset and a substitute for 
the bird was frantically so
ught to enable the game of 
Quidditch to proceed. 
The invention of the Golden Snitch is credited to the 
wizard Bowman Wright of 
Godrics Hollow. While 
Quidditch teams all over th
e country tried to find bird 
substitutes for the Snidget, Wright, who was a skilled 
metal-charmer, set himself to the task of creating a ball 
that mimicked the behaviour and flight patterns of the 
Snidget. That he succeeded perfectly is clear from the 
many rolls of parchment he left behind him on his death 

(now in the possession of a private collector), listing the 
orders that he had received from all over the country. The 
Golden Snitch, as Bowman called his invention, was a 
15 walnut-sized ball exactly the weight of a Snidget. Its 
silvery wings had rotational joints like the Snidgets, 

enabling it to change directi
on with the lightning speed 
and precision of its living 
model. Unlike the Snidget, 
however, the Snitch had been 
bewitched to remain within 
the boundaries of the field. The introduction of the 
Golden Snitch may be said 
to have finished the process 
begun three hundred years before on Queerditch Marsh. 
Quidditch had been truly born. 
  Chapter Five Anti-Muggle Precautions  n 1398 the wizard Zacharias Mumps set down the first full description of the game of Quidditch. He began by 
emphasising the need for anti-Muggle security while 

playing the game: Choose areas of deserted moorland far 
from Muggle habitations and make sure that you cannot 
be seen once you take of
f on your brooms. Muggle-
Repelling Charms are useful
 if you are setting up a 
permanent pitch. It is advisable, too, to play at night. 
We deduce that Mumpss excellent advice was not 
always followed from the fact
 that the Wizards Council 
outlawed all Quidditch-playing 
within fifty miles of towns 
I 16 in 1362. Clearly the popularity
 of the game was increasing 
rapidly, for the Council found it necessary to amend the 

ban in 1368, making it illega
l to play within a hundred 
miles of a town. In 1419, the 
Council issued the famously 
worded decree that Quidditch should not be played 

anywhere near any place wh
ere there is the slightest 
chance that a Muggle might be
 watching or well see how 
well you can play whilst ch
ained to a dungeon wall. 
As every school-age wizard knows, the fact that we fly 
on broomsticks is probably our worst-kept secret. No 
Muggle illustration of a witch is complete without a 
broom and however ludicrous these drawings are (for 
none of the broomsticks depicted by Muggles could stay 
up in the air for a moment), they remind us that we were 

careless for too many centur
ies to be surprised that 
broomsticks and magic are in
extricably linked in the 
Muggle mind. Adequate security measures 
were not enforced until the 
International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy of 1692 made 
every Ministry of Magic directly responsible for the 
consequences of magical s
ports played within their 
territories. This subsequently led, in Britain, to the 
formation of the Department of Magical Games and 

Sports. Quidditch teams that flouted the Ministry 
guidelines were henceforth 
forced to disband. The most 
famous instance of this was the Banchory Bangers, a 
17 Scottish team renowned not on
ly for their poor Quidditch 
skills but also for their post
-match parties. After their 
1814 match against the Appleby Arrows (see Chapter 

Seven), the Bangers not only allowed their Bludgers to 

zoom away into the night, b
ut also set out to capture a 
Hebridean Black for their team
 mascot. Ministry of Magic 
representatives apprehended th
em as they were flying 
over Inverness and the Banc
hory Bangers never played 
again. Nowadays Quidditch teams do not play locally, but 
travel to pitches, which 
have been set up by the 
Department of Magical Games and Sports where 
adequate anti-Muggle security 
is maintained. As Zacharias 
Mumps so rightly suggested six hundred years ago, 

Quidditch pitches are safest on deserted moors. 
 Chapter Six
 Changes in Quidditch Since the 
Fourteenth Century  Pitch
 Zacharias Mumps describes the fourteenth-century pitch 
as oval-shaped, five hundred feet long, and a hundred and 
eighty feet wide with a smal
l central circle (approximately 
two feet in diameter) in the 
middle. Mumps tells us that 
18 the referee (or Quijudge, as he or she was then known), 
carried the four balls into this central circle while the 

fourteen players stood around 
him. The moment the balls 
were released (the Quaffle was 
thrown by the referee; see 
Quaffle below), the players raced into the air. The 

goalposts in Mumpss time were still large baskets on 
poles, as seen in Fig. C. In 1620 Quintius Umfraville 
wrote a book called 
The Noble Sport of Warlocks, 
which included a diagram of the seventeenth-
century pitch (see Fig. D). Here 
we see the addition of what we 
know as scoring areas (see 

Rules below). The baskets on 
top of the goalposts were 
considerably smaller and higher 
than in Mumpss time. By 1883 baskets had ceased to 
be used for scoring and were 
replaced with the goalposts we 
use today, an innovation 
reported in the 
Daily Prophet 
of the time (see below). The 
Quidditch pitch has not altered 
since that time. 19   Bring Back Our Baskets! That was the cry heard from Quidditch 
players across the nation last night as it 
became clear that the Department of 
Magical Games and Sports had decided to 
burn the baskets used for centuries for goal-
scoring in Quidditch. 
Were not burning them, dont 
exaggerate, said an irritable-looking 
Departmental representative last night 
when asked to comment. Baskets, as you 

may have noticed, come in different sizes. 

We have found it impossible to standardise 

basket size so as to make goalposts 

throughout Britain equal. Surely you can 
see its a matter of fairness. I mean, theres 
a team up near Barnton, theyve got these 

minuscule little baskets attached to the 
opposing teams posts, you couldnt get a 
grape in them. And up their own end theyve 
got these great wicker caves swinging 
around. Its not on. Weve settled on a fixed 
20 hoop size and thats it. Everything nice and 
fair. 
At this point, the Departmental 
representative was forced to retreat under a 
hail of baskets thrown by the angry 
demonstrators assembled in the hall. 
Although the ensuing riot was later blamed 

on goblin agitators, there can be no doubt 
that Quidditch fans across Britain are 
tonight mourning the end of the game as we 

know it. 
 T wont be t same wiout baskets, said 
one apple-cheeked old wizard sadly. I 
remember when I were a lad, we used to set 
fire to em for a laugh during t match. You 
cant do that with goal hoops. Alf t funs 

gone. Daily Prophet, 
12 February 1883 
  
 Balls The Quaffle As we know from Gertie Keddles diary, the Quaffle was 
from earliest times made of leather. Alone of the four 
Quidditch balls, the Quaffle was not originally enchanted, 
but merely a patched leather ball, often with a strap (see 
Fig. E), as it had to be caught and thrown one-handed. 
Some old Quaffles have finger
 holes. With the discovery 
of Gripping Charms in 1875, however, straps and finger 

holes have become unnecessary, as the Chaser is able to 
keep a one-handed hold on the charmed leather without 
such aids. 21 The modern Quaffle is twelve inches in diameter and 
seamless. It was first colour
ed scarlet in the winter of 
1711, after a game when heavy rain had made it 

indistinguishable from the mu
ddy ground whenever it was 
dropped. Chasers were also becoming increasingly 

irritated by the necessity of 
diving continually towards the 
ground to retrieve the Quaffle whenever they missed a 
catch and so, shortly after the Quaffles change of colour, 
the witch Daisy Pennifold had the idea of bewitching the 
Quaffle so that if dropped, it
 would fall slowly earthwards 
as though sinking through water, meaning that Chasers 
could grab it in mid-air. The 
Pennifold Quaffle is still 
used today.  
        The Bludgers The first Bludgers (or Blooders) were, as we have seen, 

flying rocks, and in Mumpss time they had merely 
progressed to rocks carved into the shape of balls. These 
22 had one important disadvantage, however: They could be 
cracked by the magically reinforced Beaters bats of the 

fifteenth century, in which 
case all players would be 
pursued by flying gravel for the remainder of the game. It was probably for this re
ason that some Quidditch 
teams began experimenting with metal Bludgers in the 
early sixteenth century. Agatha Chubb, expert in ancient 
wizarding artifacts, has identi
fied no fewer than twelve 
lead Bludgers dating from this period, discovered both in 
Irish peat bogs and English marshes. They are 
undoubtedly Bludgers rather than cannon balls, she 
writes.  The faint indentations of magica
lly reinforced Beaters bats 
are visible and one can see the distinctive hallmarks of 

manufacture by a wizard (as opposed to a Muggle)  the 
smoothness of line, the perfec
t symmetry. A final clue was 
the fact that each and every one of them whizzed around my 

study and attempted to knock me
 to the floor when released 
from its case.  Lead was eventually discover
ed to be too soft for the 
purpose of Bludger manufacture 
(any indentation left on 
a Bludger will affect its ability to fly straight). Nowadays 
all Bludgers are made of iron. They are ten inches in 
diameter. 23 Bludgers are bewitched to chase players in-discriminately. If left to their 
own devices, they will attack 
the player closest to them, hence the Beaters task is to 

knock the Bludgers as far away from their own team as 

possible. 
 The Golden Snitch The Golden Snitch is walnut-sized, as was the Golden 
Snidget. It is bewitched to evade capture as long as 
possible. There is a tale th
at a Golden Snitch evaded 
capture for six months on Bodm
in Moor in 1884, both 
teams finally giving up in di
sgust at their Seekers poor 
performances. Cornish wizards
 familiar with the area 
insist to this day that the Snit
ch is still living wild on the 
moor, though I have not been able to confirm this story.  Players 
The Keeper The position of Keeper has 
certainly existed since the thirteenth century (see Chapter Four), though the role 

has changed since that time. 
According to Zacharias Mumps, the Keeper 
 should be first to reach the goal baskets for it is his job to 
prevent the Quaffle entering therein. The Keeper should 
beware of straying too far towards the other end of the 
24 pitch, in case his baskets come
 under threat in his absence. 
However, a fast Keeper may be able to score a goal and then 
return to his baskets in time to prevent the other team 

equalising. It is a matter for the individual conscience of the 
Keeper.  It is clear from this that in Mumpss day the Keepers 
performed like Chasers with 
extra responsibilities. They were allowed to move all ov
er the pitch 
and to score 
goals. By the time Quintius Umfraville wrote 
The Noble Sport 
of Warlocks 
in 1620, however, the Keepers job had been 
simplified. The scoring areas had now been added to the 
pitch and the Keepers were 
advised to remain within 
them, guarding their goal ba
skets, though Keepers may fly 
out of this area in an atte
mpt to intimidate opposing 
Chasers or head them off early. 
  The Beaters The duties of the Beaters have changed little through the 

centuries and it is likely that Beaters have existed ever 

since the introduction of the Bludgers. Their first duty is 
to guard their team members 
from the Bludgers, which 
they do with the aid of bats
 (once clubs, see Goodwin 
Kneens letter in Chapter Thr
ee). Beaters have never been 
25 goal-scorers, nor is there an
y indication that they have 
handled the Quaffle. Beaters need a good deal of physical strength to repel 
the Bludgers. This is therefore the position that, more than 

any other, has tended to be taken by wizards rather than 

witches. Beaters also need to have an excellent sense of 
balance, as it is sometimes necessary for them to take both 
hands from their brooms for a double-handed assault on a 
Bludger.  The Chasers Chaser is the oldest position in Quidditch, for the game 
once consisted wholly of goal
-scoring. The Chasers throw 
the Quaffle to each other and 
score ten points for every 
time they get it through one of the goal hoops. The only significant change in Chasing came about in 
1884, one year after the substitution of goal hoops for 
goal baskets. A new rule was in
troduced which stated that 
only the Chaser carrying the Quaffle could enter the 

scoring area. If more than one Chaser entered, the goal 

would be disallowed. The rule was designed to outlaw 

stooging (see Fouls below), a move by which two 

Chasers would enter the scoring area and ram the Keeper 

aside, leaving a goal hoop clear for the third Chaser. 
Reaction to this new rule was reported in the 
Daily Prophet of the time. 26 Our Chasers Arent Cheating! That was the stunned reaction of Quidditch 
fans across Britain last night when the so-
called Stooging Penalty was announced by 
the Department of Magical Games and 
Sports last night. 
Instances of stooging have been on the 
increase, said a harassed-looking Depart-
mental representative last night. We feel 
that this new rule will eliminate the severe 
Keeper injuries we have been seeing only 
too often. From now on, one Chaser will 
attempt to beat the Keeper, as opposed to 
three Chasers beating the Keeper up. 
Everything will be much cleaner and fairer. 
At this point the Departmental rep-
resentative was forced to retreat as the 
angry crowd started to bombard him with 
Quaffles. Wizards from the Department of 
Magical Law Enforc
ement arrived to 
disperse the crowd, who were threatening to 
stooge the Minister of Magic himself. 
One freckle-faced six-year-old left the 
hall in tears. 
I loved stooging, he sobbed to the 
Daily 
Prophet. Me and me dad like watching 
them Keepers flattened. I dont want to go 
to Quidditch no more. 
Daily Prophet, 
22 June 1884 
The Seeker Usually the lightest 
and fastest fliers, Seekers need both a 
sharp eye and the ability to 
fly one- or no-handed. Given 
their immense importance in the overall outcome of the 
27 match, for the capture of the Snitch so often snatches 
victory from the jaws of defeat, Seekers are most likely to 

be fouled by members of 
the opposition. Indeed, while there is considerable glamour attached to the position of 

Seeker, for they are traditionally the best fliers on the 

pitch, they are usually the 
players who receive the worst 
injuries. Take out the Seeker 
is the first rule in Brutus 
Scrimgeours 
The Beaters Bible.
 Rules The following rules were set 
down by the Department of 
Magical Games and Sports upon its formation in 1750: 1.  Though there is no limit imposed on the height to 
which a player may rise during the game, he or she must 
not stray over the boundary lines of the pitch. Should a 

player fly over the boundary, his or her team must 

surrender the Quaffle to the opposing team. 

2.  The Captain of a team may call for time out by 

signalling to the referee. This 
is the only time players feet 
are allowed to touch the gro
und during a match. Time out 
may be extended to a two-hour 
period if a game has lasted 
more than twelve hours. 
Failure to return to the pitch after two hours leads to the teams disqualification. 3.  The referee may award pe
nalties against a team. The Chaser taking the penalty will 
fly from the central circle 
towards the scoring area. A
ll players other than the 
28 opposing Keeper must keep well 
back while the penalty is 
taken. 
4.  The Quaffle may be taken 
from another players grasp 
but under no circumstances must
 one player seize hold of 
any part of another players anatomy. 
5.  In the case of injury, no su
bstitution of players will take 
place. The team will play on without the injured player. 6.  Wands may be taken on to the pitch
1 but must under no 
circumstances whatsoever be used against opposing team 
members, any opposing team members broom, the 
referee, any of the balls, or any member of the crowd. 
7.  A game of Quidditch ends only when the Golden Snitch 
has been caught, or by mutual consent of the two team 
Captains. Fouls 
Rules are of course made to
 be broken. Seven hundred 
Quidditch fouls are listed in the Department of Magical 

Games and Sports records, a
nd all of them are known to 
have occurred during the final 
of the first ever World Cup 
in 1473. The full list of thes
e fouls, however, has never 
been made available to the wi
zarding public. It is the 
Departments view that witches and wizards who see the 
list might get ideas. 
1. The right to carry a wand at all ti
mes was established by the International 
Confederation of Wizards in 1692, when 
Muggle persecution 
was at its height and the wizards were planning
 their retreat into hiding. 
29 I was fortunate enough to gain access to the documents 
relating to these fouls while researching this book and can 

confirm that no public g
ood can come of their 
publication. Ninety percent of th
e fouls listed are, in any 
case, impossible as long as th
e ban on using wands against 
the opposing team is upheld (this ban was imposed in 
1538). Of the remaining ten percent, it is safe to say that 
most would not occur to even the dirtiest player; for 
example, setting fire to 
an opponents broom tail, 
attacking an opponents broom 
with a club, attacking 
an opponent with an axe. This is not to say that modern 
Quidditch players never brea
k rules. Ten common fouls 
are listed below. The correct 
Quidditch term for each foul 
is given in the first column. 
 Name Applies to
 Description
 Blagging All players Seizing opponents broom tail to slow or 
hinder 
Matching All players Flying with intent to collide 
Blurting All players Locking broom handles with a view to 
steering opponent off course 
Bumphing
 Beaters only Hitting Bludger towards crowd, 
necessitating a halt of the game as officials 
rush to protect bystanders. Sometimes 
used by unscrupulous players to prevent 
an opposing Chaser scoring 
Cobbing All players Excessive use of elbows towards 
opponents 
30 Flacking Keeper only Sticking any portion of anatomy through 
goal hoop to punch Quaffle out. The 
Keeper is supposed to block the goal 
hoop from the front rather than the rear
Haversacking Chasers only 
Hand still on Quaffle as it goes through 
goal hoop (Quaffle must be thrown) 
Quaffle-pocking Chasers only 
Tampering with Quaffle, e.g., 
puncturing it so that it falls more quickly 
or zigzags 
Snitchnip All players but 
Seeker Any player other than Seeker touching or 
catching the Golden Snitch 
Stooging Chasers only 
More than one Chaser entering the 
scoring area 
 Referees Refereeing a Quidditch match was once a task for only the 
bravest witches and wizards. Zacharias Mumps tells us 
that a Norfolk referee called 
Cyprian Youdle died during a 
friendly match between local wizards in 1357. The 
originator of the curse was never caught but is believed to 

have been a member of the cr
owd. While there have been 
no proven referee slayings since, there have been several 
incidences of broom-tamperi
ng over the centuries, the 
most dangerous being the transformation of the referees 
broom into a Portkey, so that he or she is whisked away 
from the match halfway through and turns up months 
later in the Sahara Desert. The Department of Magical 

Games and Sports has issued
 strict guidelines on the 
security measures relating 
to players brooms and these 
31 incidents are now, thankfully, extremely rare. 
The effective Quidditch referee needs to be more than 
an expert flier. He or sh
e has to watch the antics of 
fourteen players at once and the most common referees 

injury is consequently neck strain. At professional 

matches the referee is assist
ed by officials who stand 
around the boundaries of the 
pitch and ensure that neither 
players nor balls stray over the outer perimeter. 
In Britain, Quidditch refe
rees are selected by the 
Department of Magical Games and Sports. They have to 
take rigorous flying tests and an exacting written 
examination on the rules of Qu
idditch and prove, through 
a series of intensive trials, that they will not jinx or curse 
offensive players even under severe pressure.  Chapter Seven Quidditch Teams of Britain and  Ireland  he necessity for keeping the game of Quidditch 
secret from Muggles mean
s that the Department of 
Magical Games and Sports has had to limit the number of 

games played each year. While amateur games are 
permitted as long as the 
appropriate guidelines are 
followed, professional Quiddi
tch teams have been limited 
T 32 in number since 1674 when the League was established. 
At that time, the thirteen be
st Quidditch teams in Britain 
and Ireland were selected to jo
in the League and all others 
were asked to disband. The 
thirteen teams continue to 
compete each year for the League Cup. 

 Appleby Arrows This northern English team was founded in 1612. Its 

robes are pale blue, emblazoned with a silver arrow. 
Arrows fans will agree that 
their teams most glorious 
hour was their 1932 defeat of 
the team who were then the 
European champions, the Vratsa Vultures, in a match that 
lasted sixteen days in conditi
ons of dense fog and rain. The 
club supporters old practice of shooting arrows into the 

air from their wands every ti
me their Chasers scored was 
banned by the Department of Magical Games and Sports 
in 1894, when one of these weapons pierced the referee 
Nugent Potts through the nose. There is traditionally 
fierce rivalry between the Arrows and the Wimbourne 
Wasps (see below). 
 Ballycastle Bats 
Northern Irelands most cele
brated Quidditch team has 
won the Quidditch League a 
total of twenty-seven times 
to date, making it the second most successful in the 

Leagues history. The Bats we
ar black robes with a scarlet 
33 bat across the chest. Their famous mascot Barny the 
Fruitbat is also well-know
n as the bat featured in 
Butterbeer advertisements 
(Barny says: Im just batty about 
Butterbeer!).  Caerphilly Catapults 
The Welsh Catapults, formed in 1402, wear vertically 
striped robes of light 
green and scarlet. Their 
distinguished club history includes eighteen League wins 
and a famous triumph in the 
European Cup final of 1956, 
when they defeated the Norwegian Karasjok Kites. The 

tragic demise of their most
 famous player, Dangerous 
Dai Llewellyn, who was eaten by a Chimaera while on 

holiday in Mykonos, Greece, re
sulted in a day of national 
mourning for all Welsh witches and wizards. The 
Dangerous Dai Commemorative Medal is now awarded at 
the end of each season to the League player who has taken 
the most exciting and fool
hardy risks during a game.  Chudley Cannons 
The Chudley Cannons glory days
 may be considered by 
many to be over, but their devoted fans live in hope of a 

renaissance. The Cannons have
 won the League twenty-
one times, but the last time they did so was in 1892 and 
their performance over the last century has been 
lacklustre. The Chudley Cannons wear robes of bright 
34 orange emblazoned with a speeding cannon ball and a 
double C in black. The cl
ub motto was ch
anged in 1972 
from We shall conquer to Let
s all just keep our fingers 
crossed and hope for the best. 

 Falmouth Falcons 
The Falcons wear dark-grey and white robes with a 
falcon-head emblem across the chest. The Falcons are 
known for hard play, a reputation consolidated by their 
world-famous Beaters, Kevin and Karl Broadmoor, who 
played for the club from 1958 to 1969 and whose antics 
resulted in no fewer than fourteen suspensions from the 
Department of Magical Games and Sports. Club motto: 
Let us win, but if we cannot win, let us break a few 

heads.  Holyhead Harpies 
The Holyhead Harpies is a very old Welsh club (founded 

1203), unique among Quidditc
h teams around the world because it has only ever hired witches. Harpy robes are 
dark green with a golden talon upon the chest. The 
Harpies defeat of the Heidelberg Harriers in 1953 is 
widely agreed to have been one of the finest Quidditch 

games ever seen. Fought over a seven-day period, the 

game was brought to an end by a spectacular Snitch 

capture by the Harpy Seeker
 Glynnis Griffiths. The 
35 Harriers Captain Rudolf Brand famously dismounted 
from his broom at the end 
of the match and proposed 
marriage to his opposite number, Gwendolyn Morgan, 

who concussed him with 
her Cleansweep Five. 
 Kenmare Kestrels This Irish side was founded in 1291 and is popular 
worldwide for the spirited di
splays of their leprechaun 
mascots and the accomplished harp playing of their 
supporters. The Kestrels wear
 emerald-green robes with 
two yellow Ks back to back on the chest. Darren 
OHare, Kestrel Keeper 1
94760, captained the Irish 
National Team three times and is credited with the 

invention of the Chaser Ha
wkshead Attacking Formation (see Chapter Ten). 
 Montrose Magpies 
The Magpies are the most succe
ssful team in the history 
of the British and Irish League, which they have won 
thirty-two times. Twice European Champions, the 
Magpies have fans across the globe. Their many 
outstanding players include the Seeker Eunice Murray 
(died 1942), who once petitioned for a faster Snitch because this is just too easy, and Hamish MacFarlan 

(Captain 195768), who followed his successful 

Quidditch career with an eq
ually illustrious period as 
36 Head of the Department of Magical Games and Sports. 
The Magpies wear black and white robes with one magpie 

on the chest and another on the back. 
 Pride of Portree This team comes from the Isle of Skye, where it was 

founded in 1292. The Prides, 
as they are known to their 
fans, wear deep-purple robe
s with a gold star on the 
chest. Their most famous Ch
aser, Catriona McCormack, 
captained the team to two League wins in the 1960s, and 

played for Scotland thirty-six times. Her daughter 

Meaghan currently plays Keeper for the team. (Her son 

Kirley is lead guitarist with the popular wizarding band 

The Weird Sisters.) 
 Puddlemere United Founded in 1163, Puddlemere United
 is the oldest team 
in the League. Puddlemere has twenty-two League wins 
and two European Cup triumphs to its credit. Its team 
anthem Beat Back Those Bludg
ers, Boys, and Chuck That 
Quaffle Here was recently recorded by the singing 
sorceress Celestina Warbeck to
 raise funds for St. Mungos 
Hospital for Magical Maladi
es and Injuries. Puddlemere 
players wear navy-blue robes bearing the club emblem of 
two crossed golden bulrushes. 
37 Tutshill Tornados The Tornados wear sky-blue robes with a double T in 
dark blue on the chest and back. Founded in 1520, the 

Tornados enjoyed their greate
st period of success in the 
early twentieth century when, captained by Seeker 

Roderick Plumpton, they won th
e League Cup five times 
in a row, a British and Irish re
cord. Roderick Plumpton played 
Seeker for England twenty-two
 times and holds the British 
record for fastest capture of a 
Snitch during a game (three and 
a half seconds, against Caerphilly Catapults, 1921). 
Wigtown Wanderers 
This Borders club was founded in 1422 by the seven 
offspring of a wizarding bu
tcher named Walter Parkin. 
The four brothers and three sisters were by all accounts a 
formidable team who rarely lost a match, partly, it is said, 
because of the intimidation felt by opposing teams at the 
sight of Walter standing on 
the sidelines with a wand in 
one hand and a meat cleaver in the other. A Parkin 

descendant has often been f
ound on the Wigtown team 
over the centuries and in tribute to their origins, the 
players wear blood-red robes wi
th a silver meat cleaver 
upon the chest. Wimbourne Wasps 
The Wimbourne Wasps wear hori
zontally striped robes of 
yellow and black with a wasp upon their chests. Founded 
38 in 1312, the Wasps have been eighteen times League 
winners and twice semifinalists in the European Cup. 

They are alleged to have taken their name from a nasty 

incident which occurred during a match against the 

Appleby Arrows in the mid-seventeenth century, when a 

Beater flying past a tree on th
e edge of the pitch noticed a wasps nest among the branches and batted it towards the 
Arrows Seeker, who was so bad
ly stung that he had to 
retire from the game. Wimb
ourne won and thereafter 
adopted the wasp as their lucky emblem. Wasp fans (also 
known as Stingers) traditiona
lly buzz loudly to distract 
opposing Chasers when they are taking penalties. 
 Chapter Eight
 The Spread of  Quidditch Worldwide  Europe
 Quidditch was well established in Ireland by the 
fourteenth century, as prov
ed by Zacharias Mumpss 
account of a match in 1385: A team of Warlocks from 

Cork flew over for a game 
in Lancashire and did offend 
the locals by beating their heroes soundly. The Irishmen 
knew tricks with the Quaffle that had not been seen in 
Lancashire before and had to 
flee the village for fear of 
39 their lives when the crowd dr
ew out their wands and gave 
chase. Diverse sources show that 
the game had spread into 
other parts of Europe by the early fifteenth century. We 

know that Norway was an 
early convert to the game (could Goodwin Kneens cous
in Olaf have introduced 
the game there?) because of the verse written by the poet 
Ingolfr the Iambic in the early 1400s: 
 Oh, the thrill of the chase as I soar through the air 
With the Snitch up ahead and the wind in my hair 
As I draw ever closer, the crowd gives a shout 

But then comes a Bludger and I am knocked out. 
 Around the same time, the Fren
ch wizard Malecrit wrote 
the following lines in his play 
Hlas, Je me suis Transfigur Les 
Pieds (Alas, Ive Transfigured My Feet): 
 GRENOUILLE
: I cannot go with you 
to the market today, 
Crapaud. 
CRAPAUD: But Grenouille, I cannot carry the cow alone. 
GRENOUILLE
: You know, Crapaud, that I am to be Keeper 
this morning. Who will stop the Quaffle if I do not? 
 The year 1473 saw the first ever Quidditch World Cup, 

though the nations represented were all European. The 

nonappearance of teams from more distant nations may 
40 be put down to the collapse of owls bearing letters of 
invitation, the reluctance of th
ose invited to make such a 
long and perilous journey, or perhaps a simple preference 

for staying at home. The final between Transylvania and Flanders has gone 
down in history as the most vi
olent of all time and many 
of the fouls then recorded had never been seen before  
for instance, the transfiguration of a Chaser into a polecat, 
the attempted decapitation of 
a Keeper with a broadsword, 
and the release, from under th
e robes of the Transylvanian 
Captain, of a hundred blood-sucking vampire bats. The World Cup has since been held every four years, 
though it was not until the seventeenth century that non-
European teams turned up 
to compete. In 1652 the 
European Cup was established, and it has been played 
every three years since. 
Of the many superb European teams, perhaps the 
Bulgarian Vratsa Vultures 
is most renowned. Seven 
times European Cup winners,
 the Vratsa Vultures are 
undoubtedly one of the most thrilling teams in the world 
to watch, pioneers of the long goal (shooting from well 
outside the scoring area), and always willing to give new 
players a chance to make a name for themselves. 
In France the frequent League winners the 
Quiberon 
Quafflepunchers 
are famed for their flamboyant play 
as much as for their shocking-pink robes. In Germany we 
41 find the Heidelberg Harriers, 
the team that the Irish 
Captain Darren OHare once 
famously said was fiercer 
than a dragon and twice as cl
ever. Luxembourg, always a 
strong Quidditch nation, has given us the 
Bigonville Bombers, celebrated for their offensive strategies and 
always among the top goal-scorers. The Portuguese team 
Braga Broomfleet 
have recently brok
en through into 
the top levels of the sport with their groundbreaking 
Beater-marking system; and the Polish 
Grodzisk Goblins gave us arguably the worlds most innovative 
Seeker, Josef Wronski. 
 Australia and New Zealand
 Quidditch was introduced to 
New Zealand some time in 
the seventeenth century, allege
dly by a team of European 
herbologists who had gone on an expedition there to 

research magical plants and fung
i. We are told that after a 
long days toil collecting samples, these witches and 

wizards let off steam by playing Quidditch under the 
bemused gaze of the local magical community. The New 
Zealand Ministry of Magic has certainly spent much time 
and money preventing Muggles 
getting hold of Maori art 
of that period which clearly 
depicts white wizards playing Quidditch (these carvings and paintings are now on 
display at the Ministry of Magic in Wellington). The spread of Quidditch to Au
stralia is believed to have 
42 occurred some time in the eighteenth century. Australia 
may be said to be an ideal Quidditch-playing territory, 

given the great expanses of uninhabited outback where 

Quidditch pitches may be established. 
Antipodean teams have always thrilled European 
crowds with their speed and showmanship. Among the 
best are the 
Moutohora Macaws
 (New Zealand), with 
their famous red, yellow, and blue robes, and their 
phoenix mascot Sparky. The 
Thundelarra Thunderers and the Woollongong Warriors 
have dominated the 
Australian League for the best part of a century. Their 
enmity is legendary among the Australian magical 
community, so much so that a popular response to an 
unlikely claim or boast is Yeah, and I think Ill volunteer 

to ref the next ThundererWarrior game. 
 Africa
 The broomstick was probably
 introduced to the African 
continent by European wizards
 and witches travelling 
there in search of informati
on on alchemy and astronomy, 
subjects in which African 
wizards have always been 
particularly skilled. Though not ye
t as widely played as in 
Europe, Quidditch is becomi
ng increasingly popular 
throughout the African continent. Uganda in particular is em
erging as a keen Quidditch-
playing nation. Their most notable club, the 
Patonga 43 Proudsticks,
 held the Montrose Ma
gpies to a draw in 
1986 to the astonishment of most of the Quidditch-
playing world. Six Proudstick players recently 

represented Uganda in the Quidditch World Cup, the 

highest number of fliers from 
a single team ever united on 
a national side. Other African teams of note include the 
Tchamba Charmers
 (Togo), masters of the reverse 
pass; the 
Gimbi Giant-Slayers
 (Ethiopia), twice 
winners of the All-Africa Cup; and the 
Sumbawanga Sunrays (Tanzania), a highly popular team whose 
formation looping has delighted crowds across the world.  North America Quidditch reached the North American continent in the 
early seventeenth century, al
though it was slow to take 
hold there owing to the great 
intensity of anti-wizarding 
feeling unfortunately exported from Europe at the same 

time. The great caution exerci
sed by wizard settlers, many 
of whom had hoped to find
 less prejudice in the New 
World, tended to restrict the growth of the game in its 
early days. In later times, however, Cana
da has given us three of the 
most accomplished Quidditch teams in the world: the 
Moose Jaw Meteorites,
 the 
Haileybury Hammers,
 and the 
Stonewall Stormers. The Meteorites were 
threatened with disbandmen
t in the 1970s owing to their 
44 persistent practice of perf
orming post-match victory 
flights over neighbouring town
s and villages while trailing 
fiery sparks from their br
oom tails. The team now 
confines this tradition to th
e pitch at the end of each 
match and Meteorite games consequently remain a great 

wizarding tourist attraction. 
The United States has no
t produced as many world-
class Quidditch teams as other nations because the game 
has had to compete with the American broom game 
Quodpot. A variant of Quidditch, Quodpot was invented 
by the eighteenth-century 
wizard Abraham Peasegood, who had brought a Quaffle with
 him from the old country 
and intended to recruit a Quidditch team. The story goes that Peasegoods Quaffle ha
d inadvertently come into 
contact with the tip of his wand 
in his trunk, so that when 
he finally took it out and be
gan to throw it around in a 
casual manner, it exploded in his face. Peasegood, whose 
sense of humour appears to have been robust, promptly 
set out to recreate th
e effect on a series of leather balls 
and soon all thought of Quidditch was forgotten as he and 
his friends developed a ga
me which centred on the 
explosive properties of the newly renamed Quod. There are eleven players a si
de in the game of Quodpot. 
They throw the Quod, or modi
fied Quaffle, from team 
member to member, attempting to get it into the pot at the end of the pitch before it explodes. Any player in 
45 possession of the Quod when it explodes must leave the 
pitch. Once the Quod is safely in the pot (a small 

cauldron containing a solution which will prevent the 

Quod exploding), the scorers
 team is awarded a point 
and a new Quod is brought on to the pitch. Quodpot has 

had some success as a minori
ty sport in Europe, though 
the vast majority of wizards remain faithful to Quidditch. The rival charms of 
Quodpot notwithstanding, 
Quidditch is gaining popularit
y in the United States. Two 
teams have recently broken th
rough at international level: 
the Sweetwater All-Stars 
from Texas, who gained a 
well-deserved win over the Quiberon Quafflepunchers in 
1993 after a thrilling five-day match; and the 
Fitchburg Finches from Massachusetts, who have now won the US 
League seven times and whose Seeker, Maximus 
Brankovitch III, has captained America at the last two 
World Cups.  South America Quidditch is played throug
hout South America, though 
the game must compete with the popular Quodpot here 
as in the North. Argentina 
and Brazil both reached the 
quarter-finals of the World Cup in the last century. 
Undoubtedly the most skilled Quidditch nation in South 

America is Peru, which is tipped to become the first Latin 

World Cup winner within ten 
years. Peruvian warlocks 
46 are believed to have had thei
r first exposure to Quidditch 
from European wizards se
nt by the International 
Confederation to monitor the numbers of Vipertooths 

(Perus native dragon). Quiddi
tch has become a veritable 
obsession of the wizard communi
ty there since that time, 
and their most famous team, the 
Tarapoto Tree-
Skimmers, recently toured Europe to great acclaim.  Asia Quidditch has never achieved 
great popularity in the East, 
as the flying broomstick is a 
rarity in count
ries where the 
carpet is still the preferred mo
de of travel. 
The Ministries 
of Magic in countries such as India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, 
Iran, and Mongolia, all of whom maintain a flourishing 

trade in flying carpets, regard Quidditch with some 
suspicion, though the sport does have some fans among 
witches and wizards on the street. 
The exception to this general rule is Japan, where 
Quidditch has been gaining stea
dily in popularity over the 
last century. The most successful Japanese team, the 
Toyohashi Tengu, 
narrowly missed a win over 
Lithuanias Gorodok Gargoyles 
in 1994. The Japanese 
practice of ceremonially setti
ng fire to their brooms in 
case of defeat is, however, frowned upon by the 
International Confederation of Wizards Quidditch 
Committee as being a waste of good wood. 47  Chapter Nine 
The Development of the  Racing Broom  ntil the early nineteenth century, Quidditch was 
played on day brooms of varying quality. These 
brooms represented a mass
ive advance over their 
medieval forerunners; the in
vention of the Cushioning 
Charm by Elliot Smethwyck in 1820 went a long way 
towards making broomsticks more comfortable than ever 
before (see Fig. F). Nevert
heless, nineteenth-century 
broomsticks were generally incapable of achieving high 
speeds and were often difficult to control at high altitudes. 
Brooms tended to be hand-
produced by individual 
broom-makers, and while they are admirable from the 
point of view of styling and craftsmanship, their 
performance rarely matched up to their handsome 

appearance. A case in point is the 
Oakshaft 79 
(so named because 
the first example was create
d in 1879). Crafted by the 
broom-maker Elias Grimstone of Portsmouth, the 

Oakshaft is a handsome broom with a very thick oaken 
handle, designed for endurance flying and to withstand 
high winds. The Oakshaft is 
now a highly prized vintage 
U 48 broom, but attempts to use it
 for Quidditch were never 
successful. Too cumbersome 
to turn at high speed, the 
Oakshaft never gained much popularity with those who 

prized agility over safety, though it will always be 

 
       remembered as the broom used
 in the first ever Atlantic 
broom crossing, by Jocunda 
Sykes in 1935. (Before that 
time, wizards preferred to take ships rather than trust 
broomsticks over such dist
ances. Apparition becomes 
increasingly unreliable over very long distances, and only 
highly skilled wizards are wise to attempt it across 
continents.) The Moontrimmer, which was first created by 
Gladys Boothby in 1901, represented a leap forward in 

broom construction, and for a while these slender, ash-
handled brooms were in gr
eat demand as Quidditch 
brooms. The Moontrimmers pr
incipal advantage over other brooms was its ability to achieve greater heights 
than ever before (and remain controllable at such 
49 altitudes). Gladys Booth
by was unable to produce 
Moontrimmers in the quanti
ties Quidditch players 
clamoured for. The produc
tion of a new broom, the 
Silver Arrow, 
was welcomed; this was the true 
forerunner of the racing broom, achieving much higher 
speeds than the Moontrimmer or Oakshaft (up to seventy 
miles an hour with a tailwind), but like these it was the 
work of a single wizard (Leona
rd Jewkes), and demand far 
outstripped supply. The breakthrough occurred in
 1926, when the brothers 
Bob, Bill, and Barnaby Ollerton started the Cleansweep 
Broom Company. Their first model, the 
Cleansweep 
One, was produced in numbers 
never seen before and 
marketed as a racing broom specifically designed for 
sporting use. The Cleansweep was an instant, runaway 
success, cornering as no broom
 before it, and within a 
year, every Quidditch team in the country was mounted 
on Cleansweeps. The Ollerton brothers were not left in sole possession 
of the racing-broom market for long. In 1929 a second 
racing-broom company was established by Randolph 
Keitch and Basil Horton, both players for the Falmouth 
Falcons. The Comet Trading Companys first broom was 
the Comet 140, this being the number of models that 
Keitch and Horton had tested prior to its release. The 
patented HortonKeitch braking charm meant that 
50 Quidditch players were much
 less likely to overshoot 
goals or fly offside, and the Comet now became the 

broom of preference for many British and Irish teams in 

consequence. 
While the CleansweepComet competition became 
more intense, marked by the release of the improved 
Cleansweeps Two and Three in 1934 and 1937 
respectively, and the Comet 180 in 1938, other 
broomstick manufacturers were springing up all over 
Europe. The Tinderblast 
was launched on the market in 1940. 
Produced by the Black Forest company Ellerby and 

Spudmore, the Tinderblast is
 a highly resilient broom, 
though it has never achieved th
e top speeds of the Comets 
and Cleansweeps. In 1952 
Ellerby and Spudmore brought 
out a new model, the 
Swiftstick. 
Faster than the 
Tinderblast, the Swiftstick nevertheless has a tendency to 
lose power in ascent and has never been used by 
professional Quidditch teams. In 1955 Universal Brooms Ltd. introduced the 
Shooting Star, the cheapest racing broom to date. 
Unfortunately, after its initial burst of popularity, the 
Shooting Star was found to lose speed and height as it 
aged, and Universal Brooms went
 out of business in 1978. 
In 1967 the broom world was galvanised by the 
formation of the Nimbus Racing Broom Company. 
51 Nothing like the 
Nimbus 1000 
had ever been seen 
before. Reaching speeds of up to a hundred miles per 
hour, capable of turning 360 
degrees at a fixed point in 
mid-air, the Nimbus combined the reliability of the old 

Oakshaft 79 with the ea
sy handling of the best 
Cleansweeps. The Nimbus immediately became the 
broom preferred by professi
onal Quidditch teams across Europe, and the subsequent models (1001, 1500, and 
1700) have kept the Nimbus Racing Broom Company at 
the top of the field. The Twigger 90, 
first produced in 1990, was intended 
by its manufacturers Flyte and Barker to replace the 

Nimbus as market leader. However, though highly finished 
and including a number of new gimmicks such as an 

inbuilt Warning Whistle and Se
lf-Straightening Brush, the 
Twigger has been found to warp under high speeds and 
has gained the unlucky reputation of being flown by 
wizards with more Galleons than sense. 
 Chapter Ten
 Quidditch Today  he game of Quidditch continues to thrill and obsess 
its many fans around the world. Nowadays every 
purchaser of a Quidditch matc
h ticket is guaranteed to 
T 52 witness a sophisticated contest between highly skilled 
fliers (unless of course the Snit
ch is caught in the first five 
minutes of the match, in which 
case we all feel slightly 
short-changed). Nothing demonstrates this more than the 

difficult moves that have been 
invented over its long history 
by witches and wizards eage
r to push themselves and the 
game as far as they can go. So
me of these are listed below. 
Bludger Backbeat
 A move by which the Beater strikes the Bludger with a 
backhanded club swing, sending
 it behind him or her 
rather than in front. Difficult
 to bring off with precision 
but excellent for confusing opponents. Dopplebeater Defence Both Beaters hit a Bludger at the same time for extra 
power, resulting in a Bludger attack of greater severity. 
Double Eight Loop
 A Keeper defence, usually employed against penalty 
takers, whereby the Keeper sw
erves around all three goal 
hoops at high speed to block the Quaffle. Hawkshead Attacking Formation
 Chasers form an arrowhead pattern and fly together 
towards the goalposts. High
ly intimidating to opposing 
teams and effective in forcing other players aside. 53 Parkins Pincer
 So named for the original members of the Wigtown 
Wanderers, who are reputed to have invented this move. 

Two Chasers close in on an opposing Chaser on either 

side, while the third flies headlong towards him or 

her. Plumpton Pass Seeker move: a seemingly careless swerve that scoops the 
Snitch up ones sleeve. Named after Roderick Plumpton, 
Tutshill Tornado Seeker, who employed the move in his 
famous record-breaking Snitch catch of 1921. Although 
some critics have alleged that
 this was an accident, Plumpton 
maintained until his death that he had meant to do it. Porskoff Ploy
 The Chaser carrying the Quaffle flies upwards, leading 
opposing Chasers to believe he or she is trying to escape 

them to score, but then throws the Quaffle downwards 
to a fellow Chaser waiting to 
catch it. Pinpoint timing is of 
the essence. Named after the Russian Chaser Petrova 
Porskoff. Reverse Pass A Chaser throws the Quaffle 
over one shoulder to a team 
member. Accuracy is difficult. 
54 Sloth Grip Roll Hanging upside down off the broom, gripping tightly with 
hands and feet to avoid a Bludger. 
 Starfish and Stick Keeper defence:   the Keeper holds the broom horizontally 
with one hand and one foot 
curled around the handle, 
while keeping all limbs outstretched (see Fig. G). The 
Starfish Without Stick should never be attempted.      
        Transylvanian Tackle 
First seen at the World Cup 
of 1473, this is a fake punch 
aimed at the nose. As long as contact is not made, the 
55 move is not illegal, though it is difficult to pull off when 
both parties are on speeding broomsticks. 

 Woollongong Shimmy 
Perfected by the Australian Wo
ollongong Warriors, this is 
a high-speed zigzagging mo
vement intended to throw off 
opposing Chasers.  Wronski Feint The Seeker hurtle
s towards the ground pretending to 
have seen the Snitch far below, but pulls out of the dive 
just before hitting the pi
tch. Intended to make the 
opposing Seeker copy him a
nd crash. Named after the 
Polish Seeker Josef Wronski. 

       
   56   
 
 here can be no doubt that Quidditch has changed 

beyond all recognition since Gertie Keddle first 
watched those numbskull
s on Queerditch Marsh. 
Perhaps, had she lived today, she too would have thrilled 
to the poetry and power of 
Quidditch. Long may the 
game continue to evolve and long may future generations 
of witches and wizards enjoy this most glorious of sports! 
T      
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
   
 
   
  